Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix A: attributes
Points needed for attributes for applicants
in Tiers 1, 2, and 5 of the points-based
system.

Attributes for Tier 1 (Exceptional Talent)
Migrants
1. DELETED
2. DELETED.
3. DELETED
Table 1 - DELETED
Tier 1 (Exceptional Talent) Limit
4. DELETED
5. DELETED
6. DELETED

Money earned in the UK
6A. DELETED

Attributes for Tier 1 (General) Migrants
7. DELETED
8. DELETED
9. DELETED
10. DELETED
11. DELETED
Table 2- DELETED
Table 3 - DELETED
12. DELETED
13. DELETED
14. DELETED
14-SD. DELETED
15. DELETED
16. DELETED
17. DELETED
18. DELETED
19. DELETED
19-SD. DELETED
20. DELETED
21. DELETED
21-SD. DELETED
22. DELETED
23. DELETED

24. DELETED
25. DELETED
26. DELETED
27. DELETED
28. DELETED
29. DELETED
30. DELETED
31. DELETED
32. DELETED
33. DELETED
34. DELETED
34-SD. DELETED

Attributes for Tier 1 (Entrepreneur)
Migrants
35. An applicant applying for entry clearance, leave to
remain or indefinite leave to remain as a Tier 1
(Entrepreneur) Migrant must score 75 points for
attributes.
36. Available points are shown in Table 4 for initial
applications for applicants who have entry clearance,
leave to enter or leave to remain as a Tier 1 (Graduate
Entrepreneur) Migrant or a Start-up migrant, or have
had such leave in the 12 months immediately before the
date of application.
37. Available points are shown in Table 5 for extension
applications for applicants who have entry clearance,
leave to enter or leave to remain as a Tier 1
(Entrepreneur) Migrant, or have had such leave in the
12 months immediately before the date of application.
38. Available points for applications for indefinite leave
to remain are shown in Table 6.

Notes
39. (a) In all cases, an applicant cannot score points
from any of the following:
(i) the same money being used to score points for
maintenance funds for themselves or their
dependants under Appendices C or E,
(ii) money made available from a third party, where
the third party is another Tier 1 (Entrepreneur)
Migrant, or that migrant’s business or close family
member,
(iii) money invested in their business more than 12
months (or 24 months if the applicant was previously
granted leave as a Tier 1 (Graduate Entrepreneur)
Migrant) before the date of the application which led
to their first grant of leave as a Tier 1 (Entrepreneur)
Migrant,
(iv) money invested in the form of a director’s loan
unless it is unsecured and subordinated to other
creditors’ loans to the business, or
(v) investment in any residential accommodation,
property development or property management,
meaning:
(1) any development of property owned by the
applicant or their business to increase the value
of the property with a view to earning a return
either through rent or a future sale or both, or
(2) management of property (whether or not it is
owned by the applicant or their business) for the
purposes of renting it out or resale.
For the avoidance of doubt, (v) requires that the
business income is generated from the supply of goods
and/or services, and not derived from the increased
value of property or any income generated from
property, such as rent.
(b) Points will only be awarded for an applicant’s
business if it is a UK business.
(c) A business will be considered to be a UK business if
the applicant provides the specified evidence in this
Appendix to show that:

(i) it is trading within the UK economy,
(ii) it has its registered office in the UK, or, in the
case of multinational companies with no UK
registered office, its head office in the UK, except
where the applicant is registered with HM Revenue
& Customs as self-employed and does not have a
business office,
(iii) it has a UK bank account, and
(iv) it is subject to UK taxation.
(d) Points will not be awarded for being the director of a
UK business or member of a UK partnership if the
applicant is on Companies House’s list of disqualified
directors.
(e) Where evidence from an accountant is required, it
will only be accepted if the accountant:
(i) is not the applicant,
(ii) has prepared and signed off the accounts in
accordance with all relevant statutory requirements,
(iii) has a valid licence to practice or practising
certificate, and
(iv) is a member of at least one of the following:
(1) the Institute of Chartered Accountants in
England and Wales,
(2) the Institute of Chartered Accountants in
Scotland,
(3) the Institute of Chartered Accountants in
Ireland,
(4) the Association of Chartered Certified
Accountants,
(5) the Association of Authorised Public
Accountants,
(6) the Chartered Institute of Public Finance and
Accountancy,
(7) the Institute of Financial Accountants,
(8) the Chartered Institute of Management
Accountants,
(9) the Association of International Accountants,
or

(10) the Association of Accounting Technicians.
(f) Where personal or business bank statements are
required:
(i) The bank or building society must be based in the
UK and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority
(FCA) and the Prudential Regulation Authority
(PRA).
(ii) Each statement must be on the institution’s
official stationery showing the institution’s name and
logo, and confirm the applicant’s name (and, where
relevant, the applicant’s entrepreneurial team
partner’s name), the account number and the date
of the statement.
(iii) Each statement must have been issued by an
authorised official of that institution.
(iv) If the statements are printouts of electronic
statements, they must either be accompanied by a
supporting letter from the institution, on its headed
paper, confirming the authenticity of the statements,
or bear the official stamp of the institution on each
page of the statement.
(g) Further notes to accompany Table 4 appear below
Table 4.
(h) Further notes to accompany Tables 5 and 6 appear
below Table 6.

Table 4: Initial applications as referred to
in paragraph 36
Row

Investment and business activity

Points

1

At least £50,000 is available to the
applicant or their business, or has been
invested in their business due to their
activity,

25

2

The money is held in one or more
financial institutions, which are
regulated by the appropriate regulatory
body for the country in which they
operate.

25

3

The money is disposable in the UK.
If the applicant is applying for leave to
remain, the money must be held in the
UK.

25

Available money: notes
40. (a) Available money must be cash, not Individual
Savings Accounts or other assets such as stocks and
shares.
(b) Where multiple documents are provided, they
must show the total amount required is available on
the same date.
(c) The money must either be held in a UK regulated
financial institution or be transferable to the UK and
convertible to sterling.
(d) If the money is available to the applicant’s
business, rather than to the applicant themselves,
the business must be a company or partnership and
the applicant must be registered as a director, in the
case of a company, or member, in the case of a
partnership.
(e) The money must remain available to the
applicant or their business until it is spent for the
purposes of the applicant’s business(es). The
Secretary of State reserves the right to request
further evidence or otherwise verify that the money
will remain available, and to refuse the application if
this evidence is not provided or cannot be
satisfactorily verified.
(f) DELETED
(g) Money is disposable in the UK if all of the money
is held in a UK based financial institution and free
from sanctions or if the money is freely transferable
to the UK and convertible to sterling. Funds in a
foreign currency will be converted to pounds sterling
(£) using the exchange rate specified in FIN 1.1, FIN
1.2. or FIN 1.3.
(h) No points will be awarded unless the money is
held in a financial institution permitted under
Appendix Finance.

Available money: specified documents
41. (a) If all or part of the money has not yet been
invested in the applicant’s business, the applicant must
provide all of the specified documents set out in the
relevant row of Table 4A below. If the applicant is
claiming points for available money from more than one
source, the applicant must provide the specified
documents for each row which applies.
Table 4A: Specified documents showing available
money
Row

Available money

Specified
documents
(see
descriptions
below table)

1

Money available from a seed
funding competition or a UK or
Devolved Government
Department, as set out in Table 4

(i)

2

Money available from a third
party, other than those in row 1
above, where the money is still
held by the third party

All of (vi)(viii)

3

Money held by the applicant for
less than 90 consecutive days,
ending no earlier than 31 days
before the date of application,
where the source of that money
is other than those in row 1
above.

(vi) and (vii),
and, either
(ix) or (x) as
appropriate

4

Money held by the applicant for
at least 90 consecutive days,
ending no earlier than 31 days
before the date of application

Either (ix) or
(x) as
appropriate

Specified documents:
(i) A letter confirming the amount of money available

to the applicant, the entrepreneurial team or the
applicant’s business from the seed funding
competition or a UK or Devolved Government
Department. The letter must be from an authorised
official of that organisation or, in the case of a UK or
Devolved Government Department, a letter from an
authorised official of an intermediary public body
providing it confirms that it has been authorised to
award funds from that Department for the specific
purpose of establishing or expanding UK
businesses.
(ii) DELETED
(iii) DELETED
(iv) DELETED
(v) DELETED
(vi) A written declaration from each third party that
they have made the money available to invest in the
applicant’s business in the UK, containing:
(1) the names of the third party and the applicant
(and their entrepreneurial team partner’s name
where relevant), or the name of the applicant’s
business,
(2) the date of the declaration,
(3) the applicant’s signature and the signature of
the third party (and the signature of the
applicant’s entrepreneurial team partner where
relevant),
(4) the amount of money available in pounds
sterling,
(5) the relationship(s) of the third party to the
applicant,
(6) if the third party is another business in which
the applicant is self-employed or a director,
evidence of the applicant’s status within that
business and that the applicant is the sole
controller of that business’s finances, or, where
the applicant is not the sole controller, the letter
must be signed by another authorised official of
that business who is not the applicant, and
(7) confirmation that the money will remain
available until such time as it is transferred to the

applicant, the entrepreneurial team or the
applicant’s business.
(vii) A letter (or letters) from one or more legal
representatives, who are not the applicant or the
third party, which confirm(s) that all letters and
declarations in (ii)-(vi) and (viii) (where required)
contain the genuine signatures of the required
signatories. The letter(s) must clearly show the
registration or authority of the legal representative to
practise legally in the country where the third party
or the money is.
(viii) A letter from each financial institution holding
the funds, issued by an authorised official of that
institution, confirming in each case the amount of
money that the third party intends to make available,
and that the institution is not aware of the third party
having promised to make that money available to
any other person available.
(ix) For money held outside the UK, a letter from
each financial institution holding the funds, issued by
an authorised official of that institution, confirming
the minimum balance available from the applicant’s
own funds held in that institution on the date of the
letter and, in the case as described in row 4 of Table
4A, during a consecutive 90-day period of time
ending on the date of the letter.
(x) For money held in the UK, recent personal bank
or building society statements, with the most recent
statement being dated no earlier than 31 days
before the date of application, which taken
altogether show that the relevant required sum of
available money is held in the account(s) on the
date of the most recent statement(s). In the case
described in row 4 of Table 4A, the statements must
show the sum has been held for a consecutive 90
day period of time immediately before the date of
the statement.
(b) Each letter referred to in (a)(i) and (vii)-(ix) above
must:
(1) DELETED
(2) be on the organisation’s official headed paper,
(3) be dated no earlier than three months (in the
case of (i) and (vii)), or 31 days (in the case of (viii)

and (ix)), immediately before the date of application,
(4) state the applicant’s name, and their
entrepreneurial team partner’s name where relevant,
or the name of the applicant’s business,
(5) include the contact details of the person or
(where relevant) an official of the organisation
issuing the letter
(6) include (where relevant) the name of the third
party providing the money, including their full
address, postal code, telephone contact number and
any email address,
(7) in the case of (vii), include the number of the
third party or their authorised representative’s
identity document (such as a passport or national
identity card), the place of issue and dates of issue
and expiry.
(8) in the case of (viii)-(ix), show the account
number,
(9) in the case of (viii)-(ix), confirm that the financial
institution is regulated by the appropriate body and,
if not regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority
(FCA) and the Prudential Regulation Authority
(PRA), that the money can be transferred into the
UK.
42. If the money is available to the applicant’s business,
rather than to the applicant themselves, the applicant
must also provide a Companies House document
showing the address of the business’s registered office
in the UK, or head office in the UK if it has no registered
office in the UK, and that the applicant is a director, in
the case of a company, or member, in the case of a
partnership.
43. If all or part of the money has been invested in the
applicant’s business, the applicant must provide:
(a) all of the specified documents required in
paragraph 45 to show the amount of money
invested, and
(b) all of the specified documents required in
paragraph 48 to show that the applicant has
established a new UK business or joined or taken
over an existing UK business, in which the money
was invested.

44. DELETED

Table 5: Extension applications as
referred to in paragraph 37
Row

Investment, business activity and
job creation

Points

1

The applicant has invested or has
caused investment to be made by one
or more third parties, totalling at least
£200,000 (or £50,000 if they were
awarded points for £50,000 funding or
investment in their last grant of leave)
in cash directly into one or more UK
businesses.

20

The applicant does not need to provide
evidence of this investment if they were
awarded points under Table 5 in their
last grant of entry clearance or leave to
remain as a Tier 1 (Entrepreneur)
Migrant.
2

The applicant has:

20

(a) registered with HM Revenue &
Customs as self-employed, or
(b) registered with Companies House
as a director of a UK company, or
member of a UK partnership.
The applicant must have registered as
above within 6 months of entering the
UK (if they were most recently granted
entry clearance and there is evidence
to establish their date of entry) or, in
any other case, within 6 months of the
date on which the most recent leave
was granted.
3

Within the three months before the date
of application, the applicant was:
(a) registered with HM Revenue &

15

Customs as self-employed, or
(b) registered with Companies House
as a director of a UK company or
member of a UK partnership.
4

The applicant has:

20

(a) established a new business or
businesses that has or have created
the equivalent of at least 2 new full time
jobs for settled workers, or
(b) taken over or invested in an existing
business or businesses and their
services or investment have resulted in
a net increase in the employment
provided by the business or businesses
for settled workers by creating the
equivalent of at least 2 new full time
jobs for settled workers.
The jobs must have existed for at least
12 months during the applicant’s most
recent grant of leave as a Tier 1
(Entrepreneur) Migrant or, where that
leave was granted less than 12 months
ago, for at least the 12 months
immediately before the date of
application.

Table 6: Applications for indefinite leave
to remain as referred to in paragraph 38
Row

Investment, business activity and
job creation

Points

1

The applicant has invested or has
caused investment to be made by one
or more third parties, totalling at least
£200,000 (or £50,000 if they were
awarded points for £50,000 funding or
investment in their last grant of leave)
in cash directly into one or more UK

20

businesses.
The applicant does not need to provide
evidence of this investment if they were
last granted entry clearance or leave to
remain as a Tier 1 (Entrepreneur)
Migrant, having been awarded points
under Table 5.
2

The applicant was:

20

(a) registered with HM Revenue &
Customs as self-employed, or
(b) registered with Companies House
as a director of a UK company or
member of a UK partnership.
The above requirement must have
been met:
(i) within 6 months of entering the UK (if
they were most recently granted entry
clearance and there is evidence to
establish their date of entry) or, in any
other case, within 6 months from the
date the most recent leave was
granted, and
(ii) within the three months before the
date of application.
The applicant does not need to provide
evidence of (i) if they were last granted
entry clearance or leave to remain as a
Tier 1 (Entrepreneur) Migrant, having
been awarded points under Table 5.
3

The applicant has:
(a) established a new business or
businesses that has or have created
the equivalent of at least 2 new full time
jobs for settled workers, or
(b) taken over or invested in an existing
business or businesses and their

20

services or investment have resulted in
a net increase in the employment
provided by the business or businesses
for settled workers by creating the
equivalent of at least 2 new full time
jobs for settled workers.
The jobs must have existed for at least
12 months during the applicant’s most
recent grant of leave or, where that
leave was granted less than 12 months
ago, for at least the 12 months
immediately before the date of
application. In respect of an applicant
who was granted a COVID-19 related
extension of leave, the applicant must
have:
(i) created two jobs meeting the criteria
in (a) or (b) for at least the 12-month
period referred to above; and
(ii) created at least a further two jobs
meeting the criteria in (a) or (b) that
have been in existence for at least 12
months by the date of application
(these jobs can be the same as (i)
providing they meet the requirement of
existing for at least a further 12
months).
4

(a) The applicant has spent a
continuous period of 5 years lawfully in
the UK with leave as a Tier 1
(Entrepreneur) Migrant, or
(b) The applicant has spent a
continuous period of 3 years lawfully in
the UK as a Tier 1 (Entrepreneur)
Migrant, and has:
(i) created the equivalent of at least 10
(including the jobs already relied upon
to score points under row 3) new full
time jobs which meet the requirements
in row 3 above, or
(ii) established a new UK business or

15

businesses that has or have had a
gross income from business activity of
at least £5 million during the 3 year
continuous period, or
(iii) taken over or invested in an existing
UK business or businesses and the
applicant’s services or investment have
resulted in a net increase in gross
income from business activity of £5
million during the 3 year continuous
period, when compared to the 3 year
period immediately before the date the
applicant became involved with the
business.

Investment: specified documents
45. The applicant must provide their business accounts
and accompanying evidence of their investment, which
must meet the following requirements:
(a) if the applicant’s business is legally required to
produce audited accounts, the audited accounts
must be provided;
(b) if the applicant’s business is not legally required
to produce audited accounts, unaudited accounts
and an accounts compilation report must be
provided from an accountant;
(c) the audited or unaudited accounts must show the
investment in money made directly in the business
by:
(i) the applicant, in their own name,
(ii) one or more seed funding competitions or UK
or Devolved Government Departments, as set
out in Table 4, and the accounts must be
accompanied by a letter from the source,
confirming that the investment was made on the
applicant’s behalf, or
(iii) a third party other than those in (ii), and the
accounts must either:
(1) confirm that the investment was made as
a result of the applicant’s activity, or

(2) be accompanied by a letter from the
Department for International Trade,
confirming that the investment was made as
a result of the applicant’s activity;
(d) if the applicant has made the investment in the
form of a director’s loan:
(i) it must be shown in the relevant set of
accounts provided,
(ii) unless the investment was made on or before
19 November 2015 and the date of application is
before 19 November 2021, the investment must
be shown through readily identifiable
transactions in the applicant’s business bank
statements, which must clearly show the transfer
of this money from the applicant to their
business, and
(iii) the applicant must provide a legal
agreement, between the applicant (in the name
that appears on their application) and the
business, showing:
(1) the terms of the loan,
(2) any interest that is payable,
(3) the period of the loan, and
(4) that the loan is unsecured and
subordinated to other creditors’ loans to the
business;
(e) if the applicant has made the investment in the
form of share capital, the accounts must show the
shareholders, the amount and value of the shares
(on the date of purchase) in the applicant’s name as
it appears on their application. If the value of the
applicant’s share capital is not shown in the
accounts, then a printout of the company’s register
of members from Companies House must be
provided;
(f) the accounts must clearly show the name of the
accountant, the date the accounts were produced,
and how much the applicant has invested in the
business;
(g) if the applicant is claiming points for investment
from a venture capital firm, they must also provide a

dated letter from the venture capital firm, on its
headed paper, confirming:
(i) the applicant’s name,
(ii) the date(s) the money was transferred to the
applicant or invested in their business
(iii) that the venture capital firm was registered
with the Financial Conduct Authority on the
date(s) in (ii) above, and
(iv) confirmation that the venture capital firm will
verify the contents of the letter to the Home
Office on request.
(h) if the applicant is claiming points for investing
£50,000 from one of the following sources, and has
not been awarded points for those funds in a
previous application, they must also provide the
following documents:
(i) if the source is a seed funding competition or
a UK or devolved government department, the
applicant must provide the specified evidence in
Table 4A above as evidence of the source of the
funds (except that the letter referred to in
paragraph 41(a)(i) does not need to be dated
within the three months immediately before the
date of the application);
(ii) if the source is a venture capital firm, the
applicant must provide:
(1) A letter from a director, partner or fund
manager of the venture capital firm, which
includes:
(_a) confirmation of the amount of money
that was made available to the applicant,
the entrepreneurial team or the
applicant’s business from the
organisation,
(_b) a statement providing detailed
information on the strategy, structure and
financial exposure of the fund,
(_c) a statement detailing the rationale for
the investment, providing specific
information about the circumstances
which led to the investment decision,

(_d) a statement confirming that the
business/proposed business is a genuine
and credible proposition, and
(_e) confirmation that the venture capital
firm was, at the time the investment was
made, registered with the Financial
Conduct Authority (FCA) and its entry in
the register included a permission to
arrange, deal in or manage investments,
or to manage alternative investment
funds.
(2) A copy of the completed term sheet for
the investment, signed by all parties to the
transaction, which must include details of the
company valuation, company structure,
founder and investor rights, the structure of
funding and the type of security being taken.
(3) A breakdown of the technical, legal,
commercial and financial due diligence
conducted by the venture capital firm in
support of the investment.
(4) A letter from an accountant, validating the
financial condition of the fund.
(5) A letter from a legal representative, who
is not the applicant, which confirms that the
letters and declarations in (1)-(4) contain the
genuine signatures of the required
signatories. The letter must clearly show the
registration or authority of the legal
representative to practise legally in the UK.
(i) if the applicant has bought property as part of
their business investment, the value of any
residential accommodation cannot be included. The
applicant must provide an estimate of the value of
the residential accommodation if it is part of the
premises also used for the business. The valuation
must be from a surveyor who is a member of the
Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors, and dated
within the three months before the date of
application.

Business activity: notes

46. A business will only be considered to be a “new”
business for the purposes of paragraph 43 and Tables 5
and 6 if it was established by the applicant no earlier
than 12 months (or 24 months if the applicant was
previously granted leave as a Tier 1 (Graduate
Entrepreneur) Migrant) before the date of the
application which led to the applicant’s first grant of
leave as a Tier 1 (Entrepreneur) Migrant.

Business activity: specified documents
47. The applicant must provide the following specified
documents, showing that they obtained the necessary
business registration within the 6 month period referred
to in Table 5 or 6:
(a) if the applicant was self-employed, evidence of
their registration with HM Revenue & Customs;
(b) if the applicant was a director of a UK company
or member of a UK partnership, a printout from
Companies House of the company’s filing history
page and of the applicant’s personal appointments
history, showing the date of their appointment as a
director or member.
48. The applicant must provide the following specified
documents to show that they have established a new
UK business or joined or taken over an existing
business, and that they are engaged in business in the
UK when they make their application:
(a) if the applicant is self-employed, they must
provide:
(i) evidence of their registration with HM
Revenue & Customs to show that their business
is based in the UK, and such evidence is dated
no earlier than three months before the date of
application,
(ii) HM Revenue & Customs evidence that the
applicant is making tax returns within the selfassessment tax system, and
(iii) a personal bank statement showing
transactions for their business, or a business
bank statement, or a letter from a UK- regulated
financial institution, on the institution’s headed
paper, confirming that the applicant has a

business and acts through that bank for the
purposes of that business;
(b) if the applicant is a director of a UK company or
member of a UK partnership, they must provide:
(i) printouts of Companies House documents,
dated no earlier than three months before the
date of the application, showing all of the
following:
(1) the address of the registered office in the
UK, or head office in the UK if it has no
registered office,
(2) the applicant’s name, as a director or
member,
(3) the date of the applicant’s appointment as
a director or member, and
(4) that the business is actively trading (not
dormant, struck-off, dissolved or in
liquidation),
(ii) evidence from HM Revenue & Customs
confirming that the company is registered for
corporation tax (if the applicant is a director of a
company) or that the applicant is making tax
returns within the self-assessment tax system (if
the applicant is self-employed), and
(iii) a business bank statement from a UK
account which shows business transactions, or a
letter from the UK bank in question, on its
headed paper, confirming that the company or
partnership has a bank account, that the
applicant is a signatory of that account, and that
the company or partnership uses that account
for the purposes of their business.
(c) regardless of whether the applicant is selfemployed, a director or member, they must also
provide:
(i) an overview of the business’s activity,
including an explanation of the goods or services
it provides to its customers or clients; and
(ii) the applicant’s job title and job description,
setting out their role within the company, how
they are implementing their business plan and
what their main tasks and responsibilities are in

running the business on a day-to-day basis.

Job creation: notes
49. (a) A full time job is one involving at least 30 hours
of paid work per week.
(b) “The equivalent of” a full time job means two or
more part time jobs that add up to 30 hours per
week, if each of the jobs exist for at least 12 months.
However, one full time job of more than 30 hours of
work per week will not count as more than one full
time job.
(c) A job may count even if it does not last 12
consecutive months (for example it lasts for 6
months in one year and 6 months the following year)
provided that it is the same job.
(d) The jobs need not exist on the date of
application, provided that they existed for at least 12
months as specified in Table 5 (row 4) and Table 6
(row 3).
(e) Different jobs that have existed for less than 12
months cannot be combined together to make up a
12 month job.
(f) If jobs are being combined the employees being
relied upon must be clearly identified by the
applicant in their application.
(g) The jobs must comply with all relevant UK
legislation including, but not limited to, the National
Minimum Wage Regulations in effect at the time and
the Working Time Regulations 1998.
(h) A job will be considered one for settled worker if
the worker met the definition of settled worker in the
Immigration Rules in force at the time they started
the job, and they remained employed for the whole
claimed 12 month period, even if they ceased to be
a settled worker at a later date.

Job creation: specified documents
50. If the applicant is required to score points for job
creation in Table 5 or Table 6, they must provide all of
the following specified documents:

(a) printouts of Real Time Full Payment Submissions
showing that the applicant complied with Pay As You
Earn (PAYE) reporting requirements to HM Revenue
& Customs in respect of each relevant settled
worker as legally required, and has done so for the
full period of employment used to claim points.
These must show every payment made to each
settled worker as well as any deductions;
(b) duplicate payslips or wage slips for each settled
worker used to claim points, covering the full
period(s) of the employment for which points are
being claimed;
(c) confirmation of the employment start date, job
title, job description, hours paid per pay period and
the hourly rate for each settled worker relied upon,
including any changes to the same and the dates of
those changes;
(d) copies of any of the following documents which
demonstrate that each employee has settled status
in the UK:
(i) the biometric data page of a British or EEA
passport, showing the photograph and personal
details of the employee,
(ii) a birth certificate, showing the employee was
born in the UK and Colonies before 1 January
1983,
(iii) if the employee was born in the UK on or
after 1 January 1983, a birth certificate, together
with documentation, such as a passport or
naturalisation certificate, which confirms one of
their parents had settled status in the UK when
the employee was born, and additionally, if the
parent is the employee’s father, a marriage
certificate to the mother,
(iv) if the employee is an EEA national, a UK
registration certificate/permanent residence
document,
(v) if the employee is the spouse of an EEA
national, the biometric data page of their
passport, showing their photograph and personal
details, or a biometric immigration document,
and any of the documents in (i) or (iv) above
which relate to the EEA national, together with

their marriage certificate to the EEA national, or
(vi) if the worker is an overseas national with
settled status in the UK, the biometric data page
of their passport containing their photograph and
personal details, and the pages where a UK
Government stamp or an endorsement appear,
or a biometric immigration document, or official
documentation from the Home Office which
confirms their settled status in the UK;
(e) if the applicant was self-employed at the time a
settled worker was employed by their business, the
specified documents in paragraph 48(a) above
showing the dates that the applicant became
registered with HMRC as self-employed, with the
bank statements referred to in 48(a)(iii) showing all
the payments made to the settled worker in the full
period of employment used to claim points, and the
address of the business;
(f) if the applicant was a director of a UK company or
member of a UK partnership at the time the settled
worker was employed by their business, a printout
from Companies House of the company’s filing
history page and of the applicant’s personal
appointments history, showing this;
(g) if the applicant took over or joined a business,
they must provide a signed and dated letter from an
accountant, showing:
(i) the name and contact details of the business,
(ii) the applicant’s status in the business,
(iii) the number of jobs created in the business
and the hours paid in each of the jobs,
(iv) the start dates and end dates (where
applicable) of the jobs relied upon,
(v) the registration or permission of the
accountant to operate in the UK,
(vi) confirmation that the business did not
employ any workers before the applicant took
over or joined it, if relevant and
(vii) confirmation that the accountant will verify
the contents of the letter to the Home Office on
request;

This applies regardless of how long the business
existed for before the applicant took over or joined it;
(h) if the business referred to in (g) employed workers
before the applicant took over or joined it, they must
also provide the following documents for the year
immediately before the applicant joined the business
and the years that the jobs were created, showing the
net increase in employment and signed and dated by
the applicant:
(i) duplicate Real Time Full Payment Submissions
sent to HM Revenue & Customs, or
(ii) if the business started employing settled workers
for whom points are being claimed, before reporting
under Real Time, a form P35.

Settlement on the basis of £5 million
business activity: specified documents
51. (a) Where Table 6 applies and the applicant is
relying on the business activity of a new UK business or
businesses, they must provide audited (if the business
is legally required to produce audited accounts) or
unaudited accounts which show the gross income
resulting from the business’ activities and that this
reached at least £5 million.
(b) Where Table 6 applies and the applicant is
relying on business activity from an existing UK
business which they have taken over or invested in,
they must provide both of the following:
(i) audited accounts (if the business is legally
required to produce audited accounts) or
unaudited accounts clearly showing:
(1) the name of the accountant,
(2) the date the accounts were produced,
(3) the gross income from business activity
for the 3 year period immediately before the
date on which the applicant became involved
with the business, and
(4) a net increase of at least £5 million in
gross income from business activity during
the three year for which the applicant is

claiming points under Table 6, row 4;
(ii) a signed and dated accountant’s letter,
confirming:
(1) the name and contact details of the
business,
(2) an explanation of the applicant’s status in
the business,
(3) the net increase in business activity,
(4) the registration or permission of the
accountant to operate in the United Kingdom,
and,
(5) that the accountant will verify the content
of the letter to the Home Office on request.

Entrepreneurial teams: notes
52. Two applicants, but no more than two applicants,
may claim points for the same investment, available
funds, jobs created and business activity in Tables 4, 5
or 6 provided all of the following requirements are met:
(a) The applicants have equal level of control over
the funds and (where relevant) equal status as
owners, directors and/or members of the business
or businesses in question.
(b) The applicants are both shown by name,
passport number and (where relevant) Points-Based
System reference number in each other’s
applications and in the specified evidence required
in the relevant table.
(c) Neither applicant has previously been granted
leave as a Tier 1 (Entrepreneur) Migrant on the
basis of investment and/or business activity linked in
this way with any applicant other than each other, if
the same funds were relied on in a previous
application.
53. (a) No points will be awarded for money that is
made available to any individual other than the
applicant, except:
(i) under the terms of paragraph 52 above; or
(ii) where the money is held in a joint account with

the applicant’s spouse, civil partner or partner
(defined as a person who has been living together
with the applicant in a relationship akin to a marriage
or civil partnership for at least two years prior to the
date of application), and that spouse or partner is
not (and is not applying to be) another Tier 1
(Entrepreneur) Migrant.
(b) No points will be awarded for investment, job
creation and business activity shared with another Tier 1
(Entrepreneur) applicant, except under the terms of
paragraph 52 above.
(c) If the applicant is not the sole member or director in
their business, they must provide confirmation of:
(i) the names of the other members or directors,
(ii) whether any of the other members or directors
are also Tier 1 (Entrepreneur) Migrants, and
(iii) if so:
(1) the dates they became members or directors,
(2) whether they are applying under the
provisions in paragraph 52 above, and
(3) if they have made (or are making at the same
time) an application in which they claimed points
for creating jobs, the names of the jobholders in
question.

Attributes for Tier 1 (Investor) Migrants
54. An applicant applying for entry clearance, leave to
remain or indefinite leave to remain as a Tier 1
(Investor) Migrant must score 75 points for attributes.
55. DELETED.
56. (a) Available points for entry clearance or leave to
remain are shown in Table 8A for an applicant who has
had entry clearance, leave to enter or leave to remain
as a Tier 1 (Investor) Migrant in the 12 months
immediately before the date of application, unless Table
8B applies.
(b) Available points for entry clearance or leave to
remain are shown in Table 8B where all of the following
apply:

(i) The applicant has had entry clearance, leave to
enter or leave to remain as a Tier 1 (Investor)
Migrant, in the 12 months immediately before the
date of application.
(ii) The applicant’s initial grant of entry clearance or
leave to remain as a Tier 1 (Investor) Migrant was
under the Rules in place before 6 November 2014.
(iii) The date of the application is before 6 April
2020.
57. (a) Available points for applications for indefinite
leave to remain are shown in Table 9A for an applicant
who was last granted as a Tier 1 (Investor) Migrant,
unless Table 9B applies.
(b) Available points for applications for indefinite leave
to remain are shown in Table 9B where the date of
application is before 6 April 2022 and the applicant was
last granted as a Tier 1 (Investor) Migrant under the
Rules in place before 6 November 2014, or was
awarded points as set out in Table 8B of Appendix A in
his last grant.
58. Notes to accompany Tables 8A to Table 9B appear
below Table 9B.
Table 7: DELETED
Table 8A: Applications for entry clearance or leave
to remain referred to in paragraph 56(a)
Money and investment

Points

The applicant has invested not less than £2
million of his own under his control in the UK
by way of UK Government bonds, share
capital or loan capital in active and trading UK
registered companies, subject to the
restrictions set out in paragraph 65 below.

75

Where the applicant’s initial grant of leave as a
Tier 1 (Investor) Migrant was granted under
the Rules in place from 29 March 2019, no
points will be awarded for investments in UK
government bonds.
Where the applicant’s initial grant of leave as a

Tier 1 (Investor) Migrant was granted under
the Rules in place before 29 March 2019 and
the date of application is on or after 6 April
2023, no points will be awarded for
investments that were held in UK Government
bonds on or after 6 April 2023.
The investment referred to above was made:
(1) within 3 months of the applicant’s entry to
the UK, if he was granted entry clearance as a
Tier 1 (Investor) Migrant and there is evidence
to establish his date of entry to the UK, unless
there are exceptionally compelling reasons for
the delay in investing, or
(2) where there is no evidence to establish his
date of entry in the UK or where the applicant
was granted entry clearance in a category
other than Tier 1 (Investor) Migrant, within 3
months of the date of the grant of entry
clearance or leave to remain as a Tier 1
(Investor) Migrant, unless there are
exceptionally compelling reasons for the delay
in investing, or
(3) where the investment was made prior to
the application which led to the first grant of
leave as a Tier 1 (Investor) Migrant, no earlier
than 12 months before the date of such
application.
Where the applicant was awarded points as
set out in Table 8B in their last grant as a Tier
1 (Investor) Migrant, at least £1 million of the
above investment must have been made
within the timescales in (1) to (3) above. The
remaining balance of the £2 million investment
must have been made before the date of
application and be shown in the most recent
portfolio report referred to in paragraph 65SD(a) below.
In each case the level of investment must have
been at least maintained for the whole of the
remaining period of that leave.

“Compelling reasons for the delay in investing”
must be unforeseeable and outside of the
applicant’s control. Delays caused by the
applicant failing to take timely action will not be
accepted. Where possible, the applicant must
have taken reasonable steps to mitigate such
delay.
Table 8B: Applications for entry clearance or leave
to remain from applicants who initially applied to
enter the category before 6 November 2014 as
referred to in paragraph 56(b)
Money and investment

Points

The applicant:
(a) has money of his own under his control in
the UK amounting to not less than £1 million,
or
(b) (i) owns personal assets which, taking into
account any liabilities to which they are
subject, have a value of not less than £2
million, and
(ii) has money under his control and
disposable in the UK amounting to not less
than £1 million which has been loaned to him
by a UK regulated financial institution.

30

The applicant has invested not less than
£750,000 of his capital in the UK by way of UK
Government bonds, share capital or loan
capital in active and trading UK registered
companies, subject to the restrictions set out in
paragraph 65 below and has invested the
remaining balance of £1,000,000 in the UK by
the purchase of assets or by maintaining the
money on deposit in a UK regulated financial
institution.

30

(i) The investment referred to above was
made:

15

(1) within 3 months of the applicant’s entry to
the UK, if he was granted entry clearance as a
Tier 1 (Investor) Migrant and there is evidence
to establish his date of entry to the UK, unless

there are exceptionally compelling reasons for
the delay in investing, or
(2) where there is no evidence to establish the
date of his entry in the UK or where the
applicant was granted entry clearance in a
category other than Tier 1 (Investor) Migrant,
within 3 months of the date of the grant of
entry clearance or leave to remain as a Tier 1
(Investor) Migrant, unless there are
exceptionally compelling reasons for the delay
in investing, or
(3) where the investment was made prior to
the application which led to the first grant of
leave as a Tier 1 (Investor) Migrant, no earlier
than 12 months before the date of such
application, and in each case the investment
has been at least maintained for the whole of
the remaining period of that leave;
“Compelling reasons for the delay in investing”
must be unforeseeable and outside of the
applicant’s control. Delays caused by the
applicant failing to take timely action will not be
accepted. Where possible, the applicant must
have taken reasonable steps to mitigate such
delay.
Table 9A: Applications for indefinite leave to remain
referred to in paragraph 57(a)
Row

Money and investment

Points

1

The applicant has invested money of
his own under his control amounting to
at least:

40

(a) £10 million; or
(b) £5 million; or
(c) £2 million
in the UK by way of UK Government
bonds, share capital or loan capital in
active and trading UK registered
companies, subject to the restrictions

set out in paragraph 65 below.
Where the applicant’s initial grant of
leave as a Tier 1 (Investor) Migrant was
granted under the Rules in place from
29 March 2019, no points will be
awarded for investments in UK
Government bonds.
Where the applicant’s initial grant of
leave as a Tier 1 (Investor) Migrant was
granted under the Rules in place before
29 March 2019 and the date of
application is on or after 6 April 2025,
no points will be awarded for
investments that were held in UK
Government bonds on or after 6 April
2025.
2

The applicant has spent the specified
continuous period lawfully in the UK,
with absences from the UK of no more
than 180 days in any 12 calendar
months during that period. The
specified continuous period must have
been spent with leave as a Tier 1
(Investor) Migrant. The specified
continuous period is: (a) 2 years if the
applicant scores points from row 1(a)
above; (b) 3 years if the applicant
scores points from row 1(b) above; or
(c) 5 years if the applicant scores points
from row 1(c) above.

20

3

The investment referred to above was
made no earlier than 12 months before
the date of the application which led to
the first grant of leave as a Tier 1
(Investor) Migrant. The level of
investment has been at least
maintained throughout the relevant
specified continuous period referred to
in row 2, other than in the first 3 months
of that period, and the applicant has
provided the specified documents to
show that this requirement has been
met. When calculating the specified

15

continuous period, the first day of that
period will be taken to be the later of:
(a) the date the applicant first entered
the UK as a Tier 1 (Investor) Migrant
(or the date entry clearance was
granted as a Tier 1 (Investor) Migrant),
or the date the applicant first entered
the Bailiwick of Guernsey, the Bailiwick
of Jersey or the Isle of Man with leave
in a category equivalent to Tier 1
(Investor) if this is earlier, or (b) the
date 3 months before the full specified
amount was invested in the UK, or
before the full required amount in an
equivalent category was invested in the
Bailiwick of Guernsey, the Bailiwick of
Jersey or the Isle of Man.
Table 9B: Applications for indefinite leave to remain
from applicants who initially applied to enter the
category before 6 November 2014 as referred to in
paragraph 57(b)
Row

Assets and investment

Points

1

The applicant: (a) (i) has money of his
own under his control in the UK
amounting to not less than £10 million;
or (ii) (1) owns personal assets which,
taking into account any liabilities to
which they are subject, have a value of
not less than £20 million; and (2) has
money under his control and
disposable in the UK amounting to not
less than £10 million which has been
loaned to him by a UK regulated
financial institution, or (b) (i) has money
of his own under his control in the UK
amounting to not less than £5 million;
or (ii) (1) owns personal assets which,
taking into account any liabilities to
which they are subject, have a value of
not less than £10 million; and (2) has
money under his control and
disposable in the UK amounting to not
less than £5 million which has been

20

loaned to him by a UK regulated
financial institution; or (c) (i) has money
of his own under his control in the UK
amounting to not less than £1 million;
or (ii) (1) owns personal assets which,
taking into account any liabilities to
which they are subject, have a value of
not less than £2 million; and (2) has
money under his control and
disposable in the UK amounting to not
less than £1 million which has been
loaned to him by a UK regulated
financial institution.
2

The applicant has invested not less
than 75% of the specified invested
amount of his capital in the UK by way
of UK Government bonds, share capital
or loan capital in active and trading UK
registered companies, subject to the
restrictions set out in paragraph 65
below, and has invested the remaining
balance of the specified invested
amount in the UK by the purchase of
assets or by maintaining the money on
deposit in a UK regulated financial
institution.

20

The specified invested amount is:
(a) £10,000,000 if the applicant scores
points from row 1(a) above,
(b) £5,000,000 if the applicant scores
points from row 1(b) above, or
(c) £1,000,000 if the applicant scores
points from row 1(c) above.
3

The applicant has spent the specified
continuous period lawfully in the UK,
with absences from the UK of no more
than 180 days in any 12 calendar
months during that period.
The specified continuous period must
have been spent with leave as a Tier 1
(Investor) Migrant.
The specified continuous period is:

20

(a) 2 years if the applicant scores
points from row 1(a) above,
(b) 3 years if the applicant scores
points from row 1(b) above, or
(c) 5 years if the applicant scores points
from row 1(c) above.
4

The investment referred to above was
made no earlier than 12 months before
the date of the application which led to
the first grant of leave as a Tier 1
(Investor) Migrant. The level of
investment has been at least
maintained throughout the time spent
with leave as a Tier 1 (Investor) Migrant
in the UK in the relevant specified
continuous period referred to in row 3,
other than in the first 3 months of that
period. In relation to time spent with
leave as a Tier 1 (Investor) Migrant in
the UK, the applicant has provided
specified documents to show that this
requirement has been met. When
calculating the specified continuous
period, the first day of that period will
be taken to be the later of: (a) the date
the applicant first entered the UK as a
Tier 1 (Investor) Migrant (or the date
entry clearance was granted as a Tier 1
(Investor) Migrant), or the date the
applicant first entered the Bailiwick of
Guernsey, the Bailiwick of Jersey or the
Isle of Man with leave in a category
equivalent to Tier 1 (Investor) if this is
earlier, or (b) the date 3 months before
the full specified amount was invested
in the UK, or before the full required
amount in an equivalent category was
invested in the Bailiwick of Guernsey,
the Bailiwick of Jersey or the Isle of
Man.

UK bank account: notes

15

59. DELETED

Money and assets: notes
60. Money is disposable in the UK if all of the money is
held in a UK based financial institution or if the money is
freely transferable to the UK and convertible to sterling.
Funds in a foreign currency will be converted to pounds
sterling (£) using the exchange rate specified in FIN 1.1,
FIN 1.2. or FIN 1.3.
61. “Money of his own”, “personal assets” and ‘his
capital’ include money or assets belonging to the
applicant’s spouse, civil partner or unmarried or samesex partner, provided that:
(a) the applicant’s spouse, civil partner or unmarried
or same-sex partner meets the requirements of
paragraphs 319C(c) and (d) of these rules, and the
specified documents in paragraph 61-SD are
provided, and
(b) specified documents in paragraph 61-SD are
provided to show that the money or assets are
under the applicant’s control and that he is free to
invest them.
61A. In Tables 8A to 9B, “money of his own under his
control” and “money under his control” exclude money
that a loan has been secured against, where another
party would have a claim on the money if loan
repayments were not met, except where:
(i) the applicant made an application before 13
December 2012 which led to a grant of entry
clearance or leave to remain as a Tier 1 (Investor)
migrant,
(ii) the applicant has not been granted entry
clearance, leave to enter or leave to remain in any
other category since the grant referred to in (i),
(iii) the money is under the applicant’s control,
except for the fact that the loan referred to in
paragraph (b) in Table 8B or row 1 of Table 9B has
been secured against it, and
(iv) the date of application is before 6 April 2020.
61-SD. The specified documents in paragraph 61, as

evidence of the relationship and to show that the money
or assets are under the applicant’s control and that he is
free to invest them, are as follows:
(a) The applicant must provide:
(i) The certificate of marriage or civil partnership,
to confirm the relationship, which includes the
name of the applicant and the husband, wife or
civil partner, or
(ii) At least three of the following types of
specified documents to demonstrate a
relationship similar in nature to marriage or civil
partnership, including unmarried and same-sex
relationships, covering a full two-year period
immediately before the date of the application:
(1) a bank statement or letter from a bank
confirming a joint bank account held in both
names,
(2) an official document such as a mortgage
agreement showing a joint mortgage,
(3) official documents such as deeds of
ownership or a mortgage agreement showing
a joint investment, such as in property or
business,
(4) a joint rent (tenancy) agreement,
(5) any other official correspondence linking
both partners to the same address, such as
example bills for council tax or utilities,
(6) a life insurance policy naming the other
partner as beneficiary,
(7) birth certificates of any children of the
relationship, showing both partners as
parents, or
(8) any other evidence that adequately
demonstrates the couple’s long-term
commitment to one another.
(b) The applicant must provide a declaration from
the applicant’s husband, wife, civil partner, or
unmarried or same-sex partner that he will permit all
joint or personal money used to claim points for the
application to be under the control of the applicant in
the UK, known as a gift of beneficial ownership of

the money while retaining the legal title, which
clearly shows:
(1) the names of husband, wife, civil partner, or
unmarried or same-sex partner and the
applicant,
(2) the date of the declaration,
(3) the signatures of the husband, wife, civil
partner, or unmarried or same-sex partner and
applicant,
(4) the amount of money available, and
(5) a statement that the husband, wife, civil
partner, or unmarried or same-sex partner
agrees that the applicant has sole control over
the money.
(c) The applicant must provide a letter, from a legal
adviser who is permitted to practise in the country
where the declaration was made, confirming that the
declaration is valid and which clearly shows:
(1) the name of the legal adviser confirming that
the declaration is valid,
(2) the registration or authority of the legal
adviser to practise legally in the country in which
the document was drawn up,
(3) the date of the confirmation of the
declaration,
(4) the names of the applicant and husband,
wife, civil partner, or unmarried or same-sex
partner, and
(5) that the declaration is signed and valid
according to the laws of the country in which it
was made.
62. A regulated financial institution is one which is
regulated by the appropriate regulatory body for the
country in which the financial institution operates.
63. DELETED

Source of money: notes
64. DELETED

64-SD. The specified document requirements in
paragraph 64B-SD(a)(ii) are as follows:
(a) The applicant must provide:
(i) A portfolio report produced by a UK regulated
financial institution, or a breakdown of
investments in a letter produced by a UK
regulated financial institution, on the official
letter-headed paper of the institution, issued by
an authorised official of that institution. The
portfolio report or letter must cover a consecutive
2-year period of time, ending no more than one
calendar month before the date of application.
The portfolio report or letter must confirm all the
following:
(1) the amount of the money held in the
investments,
(2) the beneficial owner of the funds,
(3) the date of the investment period
covered,
(4) that the institution is a UK regulated
financial institution, with the details of the
registration shown on the documentation,
and
(5) that the money can be transferred into the
UK should the application be successful, if it
is held abroad, or that the money has already
been invested in the UK in the form of share
capital or loan capital in active and trading
UK registered companies, and the dates of
these investments;
(ii) If the applicant manages his own
investments, or has a portfolio manager who
does not operate in the UK and is not therefore
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority
(FCA) (and the Prudential Regulation Authority
(PRA) where applicable), he must provide one or
more of the documents from the list below, as
relevant to their type of investments, covering a
consecutive 2-year period of time, ending no
earlier than one calendar month before the date
of application:
(1) certified copies of bond documents
showing the value of the bonds, the date of

purchase and the owner;
(2) share documents showing the value of
the shares, the date of purchase and the
owner,
(3) the latest audited annual accounts of the
organisation in which the investment has
been made, clearly showing the amount of
money held in the investments, the name of
the applicant (or applicant and/or husband,
wife, civil partner, or unmarried or same-sex
partner), and the date of investment, or, if no
accounts have been produced, a certificate
from an accountant showing the amount of
money held in the investments, and
(4) trust fund documents from a legal adviser
showing the amount of money in the fund,
the date that the money is available and the
beneficial owner, and including the name and
contact details of the legal adviser and at
least one of the trustees;
(iii) Personal bank statements on the official
bank stationery from a bank that is regulated by
the official regulatory body for the country in
which the institution operates and the funds are
located, showing the account number and the
amount of money available in the name of the
applicant (or applicant and/or husband, wife, civil
partner, or unmarried or same-sex partner),
covering a consecutive 2-year of time, ending no
earlier than one calendar month before the date
of application. The most recent statement must
be no more than one calendar month old at the
date of application. Electronic bank statements
must be accompanied by a supporting letter from
the bank on the institution’s official headed
paper, issued by an authorising official of that
institution, confirming the content and that the
document is genuine;
(iv) If the applicant cannot provide bank
statements, a letter from a bank that is regulated
by the official regulatory body for the country in
which the institution operates and the funds are
located. The letter must be, on the institution’s
official headed paper, issued by an authorised
official of that institution, and dated no more than

one calendar month before the date of
application. The letter must confirm:
(1) the name of the applicant (or applicant
and/or husband, wife, civil partner, or
unmarried or same-sex partner), and that the
money is available in their name(s),
(2) the account number,
(3) that the bank is regulated by the official
regulatory body for the country in which the
institution operates and the funds are
located,
(4) the dates of the period covered, including
both the day the letter was produced and
three full consecutive months immediately
before the date of the letter, and
(5) the balance of the account to cover the
required amount of money as a minimum
credit balance on the date of the letter and
throughout the three full consecutive months
before the date of the letter;
(b) If the funds are not held in the UK, the applicant
must also provide a letter from a bank or financial
institution that is regulated by the official regulatory
body for the country in which the institution operates
and the funds are located, on the institution’s official
headed paper, issued by an authorised official of
that institution, which confirms:
(1) the name of the beneficial owner, which
should be the applicant (or applicant and/or
husband, wife, civil partner, or unmarried or
same-sex partner),
(2) the account number,
(3) the date of the letter,
(4) the amount of money to be transferred,
(5) that the money can be transferred to the UK
if the application is successful, and
(6) that the institution will confirm the content of
the letter to the Home Office on request.
If the applicant is providing the letter in (a)(iv) above,
this information may be contained in the same letter.

(c) If specified documents are provided from
accountants, the accountant must have a valid licence
to practise or practising certificate and must:
(i) if based in the UK, be a member of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants in England and Wales, the
Institute of Chartered Accountants in Scotland, the
Institute of Chartered Accountants in Ireland, the
Association of Chartered Certified Accountants, the
Association of Authorised Public Accountants, the
Chartered Institute of Public Finance and
Accountancy, the Institute of Financial Accountants,
the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants,
or the Association of International Accountants, or
(ii) if not based in the UK, be a member of an
equivalent, appropriate supervisory or regulatory
body in the country in which they operate.
64A-SD. For the purposes of paragraph 64B-SD(b), the
applicant must provide all the specified documents from
the following list, with contact details that enable
verification:
(a) Documents in the form of:
(i) Money given to the applicant (or applicant
and/or husband, wife, civil partner, or unmarried
or same-sex partner) within the 2 years
immediately before the application must be
shown in an irrevocable memorandum of gift,
which clearly shows:
(1) the name and signature of the person
receiving the gift,
(2) the name and signature of the person
giving the gift,
(3) the date of the memorandum,
(4) the relationship between the person
giving the gift and the person receiving it,
(5) the amount of money being given,
(6) a statement that the legal ownership of
the gift is transferred and that the document
is the memorandum of transfer,
(7) a clear description of the gift, and
(8) a statement that the gift is irrevocable;

(ii) If a memorandum of gift in (i) is provided, it
must be accompanied by a confirmation letter
from a legal adviser permitted to practise in the
country where the gift was made, which clearly
shows:
(1) the name of the legal adviser who is
confirming the details,
(2) the registration or authority of the legal
adviser to practise legally in the country in
which the gift was made,
(3) the date of the confirmation of the
memorandum,
(4) the names of the person giving the gift
and the person receiving it,
(5) the relationship between the person
giving the gift and the person receiving it,
(6) the amount of money given,
(7) the date that the money was transferred
to the applicant, or to the husband, wife, civil
partner, or unmarried partner or same-sex
partner of the applicant,
(8) that the memorandum is signed and valid,
(9) that the gift is irrevocable, and
(10) that the memorandum is binding
according to the laws of the country in which
it was made;
(iii) Deeds of sale of assets such as business or
property, if the applicant has generated these funds
within the 2 years immediately before the date of
application, which meet the relevant legal
requirements of the country of sale and clearly
show:
(1) the name of the applicant (or applicant and/or
husband, wife, civil partner, or unmarried or
same-sex partner),
(2) the amount of money raised, and
(3) the date of the sale;
(iv) If a deed of sale in (iii) is provided, it must be
accompanied by a confirmation letter from a legal
adviser permitted to practise in the country where

the sale was made, which clearly shows:
(1) the name of the legal adviser confirming the
details,
(2) the registration or authority of the legal
adviser to practise legally in the country in which
the sale was made,
(3) the date of the sale,
(4) the date of production of the letter confirming
the sale,
(5) the details of what was sold and the amount
of money received from the sale,
(6) the name of the person receiving the money
from the sale,
(7) the date that the money was transferred, and
(8) that the sale was valid according to the laws
of the country in which it was made;
(v) If the funds are currently held in the applicant’s
business (or the business of the applicant and/or the
applicant’s husband, wife, civil partner, or unmarried
or same-sex partner), the applicant must provide
business accounts, which:
(1) are profit and loss accounts (or income and
expenditure accounts if the organisation is not
trading for profit),
(2) are prepared and signed off in accordance
with statutory requirements, and
(3) clearly show the amount of money available
for investment;
(vi) If business accounts in (v) are provided, they
must be accompanied by a letter from a legal
adviser who is permitted to practise in the country
where business was operating, confirming that the
applicant (or applicant and/or husband, wife, civil
partner, or unmarried or same-sex partner) can
lawfully extract the money from the business, which
clearly shows:
(1) the name of the legal adviser who is
confirming the details,
(2) the registration or authority of the legal
adviser to practise legally in the country in which

the business is operating,
(3) the date on which the details are confirmed,
and
(4) that the applicant (or applicant and/or
husband, wife, civil partner, or unmarried or
same-sex partner) can lawfully extract the
money from the business in question;
(vii) If the applicant (or applicant and/or husband,
wife, civil partner, or unmarried or same sex partner)
has been the beneficiary of a will within the 2 years
before making the application, and has received
money as a result, the applicant must provide a
notarised copy of the will. If the applicant (or
applicant and/or husband, wife, civil partner, or
unmarried or same-sex partner) has received
possessions or assets, rather than money, then the
applicant (or applicant and/or husband, wife, civil
partner, or unmarried or same-sex partner) may not
use estimates of the value of the items as evidence
of funds for investment. The notarised copy of the
will must clearly show:
(1) the date of the will,
(2) the beneficiary of the will (this should be the
applicant or applicant and/or husband, wife, civil
partner, or unmarried or same-sex partner),
(3) the amount of money that the applicant (or
applicant and/or husband, wife, civil partner, or
unmarried or same-sex partner) has inherited,
and
(4) the names of any executors, plus any codicils
(additions) to the will that affect the amount of
money that was received;
(viii) If a notarised copy of a will in (vii) is provided, it
must be accompanied by a confirmation letter from a
legal adviser who is permitted to practise in the
country where will was made, confirming the validity
of the will, which clearly shows:
(1) the name of the legal adviser confirming the
details,
(2) the registration or authority of the legal
adviser to practise legally in the country in which
the will was made,

(3) the date of the document produced by the
legal adviser confirming the will,
(4) the date that the applicant received the
money as a result of the settlement of the will,
(5) the names of the person making the will and
the beneficiary,
(6) the relationship between the person making
the will and the beneficiary,
(7) confirmation of the amount of money
received by the applicant (or applicant and/or
husband, wife, civil partner, or unmarried or
same-sex partner).
(8) that the will is signed and valid, and
(9) that the will is valid according to the laws of
the country in which it was made;
(ix) If the applicant (or applicant and/or husband,
wife, civil partner, or unmarried or same-sex partner)
has obtained money as a result of a divorce
settlement within the 2 years immediately before the
date of application, the applicant must provide a
notarised copy of a financial agreement following a
divorce. If the applicant (or applicant and/or
husband, wife, civil partner, or unmarried or samesex partner) has received possessions or assets,
rather than money, estimates of the value of the
items will not be accepted as evidence of money for
investment.
(x) If a divorce settlement in (ix) is provided, it must
be accompanied by a confirmation letter from a legal
adviser who is permitted to practise in the country
where the divorce took place, which clearly shows:
(1) the name of the legal adviser confirming the
details,
(2) the registration or authority of the legal
adviser to practise legally in the country in which
the divorce took place,
(3) the date of the document produced by the
legal adviser confirming the divorce settlement,
(4) the date that the applicant received the
money as a result of the settlement,
(5) the names of the persons who are divorced,

(6) confirmation of the amount of money
received by the applicant (or applicant and/or
husband, wife, civil partner, or unmarried or
same-sex partner,
(7) that the divorce settlement is complete and
valid, and
(8) that the divorce settlement is valid according
to the laws of the country in which it was made;
(xi) If the applicant is relying on a financial award or
winnings as a source of funds, he must provide a
letter from the organisation issuing the financial
award or winnings, which clearly shows:
(1) the name of the applicant (or applicant and/or
husband, wife, civil partner, or unmarried or
same-sex partner),
(2) the date of the award,
(3) the amount of money won,
(4) the winnings are genuine, and
(5) the contact details for the organisation
issuing the award or winnings;
(xii) If a letter showing a financial award or winnings
in (xi) is provided, it must be accompanied by a
confirmation letter from a legal adviser who is
permitted to practise in the country where the award
was made, which clearly shows:
(1) the name of the legal adviser confirming the
details,
(2) the registration or authority of the legal
adviser to practise legally in the country in which
the award was made,
(3) the date of the letter of confirmation,
(4) the date of the award,
(5) the name of the recipient of the award,
(6) the amount of the winnings,
(7) the source of the winnings, and
(8) the date that the money was transferred to
the applicant, or husband, wife, civil partner, or
unmarried or same-sex partner;

(xiii) If the applicant (or applicant and/or husband,
wife, civil partner, or unmarried or same-sex partner)
has received money from a source not listed above,
the applicant must provide relevant documentation
as evidence of the source of the money, together
with independent supporting evidence, which both
clearly confirm:
(1) the amount of money received,
(2) the date that the money was received,
(3) the source of the money, and
(4) that the applicant (or applicant and/or
husband, wife, civil partner, or unmarried or
same-sex partner) was the legal recipient of the
money.

Source of additional money (Table 9A
and Table 9B): notes
64B-SD. In the case of an application where Table 9A,
row 1 (a) or (b), or Table 9B, row 1 (a)(i) or (b)(i) applies,
points will only be awarded if the applicant:
(a) (i) has had the additional money (or the
additional assets in respect of an application to
which either row 1 (a)(i) or (b)(i) of Table 9B applies)
that he was not awarded points for in their previous
grant for a consecutive 2-year period of time (or a
consecutive 90-day period of time if their initial leave
as a Tier 1 (Investor) Migrant was granted under the
rules in place before 29 March 2019 and the date of
application is before 6 April 2025), ending on the
date(s) this additional capital was invested (as set
out in row 1 of Table 9A or row 2 of Table 9B), and
(ii) provides the specified documents in
paragraph 64-SD (or the additional assets in
respect of an application to which either row 1
(a)(i) or (b)(i) of Table 9B applies), with the
following differences:
(1) References to “date of application” in
paragraph 64-SD are taken to read “date of
investment”;
(2) The evidence in paragraph 64-SD(a)(i)(5)
may also include evidence that the money

has already been invested in the UK in the
form of UK Government bonds, if the
applicant’s initial leave as a Tier 1 (Investor)
Migrant was granted under the Rules in
place before 29 March 2019 and the date of
application is before 6 April 2025; or
(b) provides the additional specified documents in
paragraph 64A-SD of the source of the additional
money (with the difference that references to “date
of application” in that paragraph are taken to read
“date of investment”).
64C-SD. In the case of an application where Table 9B,
row 1 (a)(ii) or (b)(ii) applies, points will only be awarded
if the applicant provides a letter of confirmation from
each UK regulated financial institution the applicant has
taken out a loan with to obtain the additional funds that
he was not awarded points for in his previous grant of
leave. The letter must have been issued by an
authorised official, on the official letter-headed paper of
the institution(s), and confirm:
(i) the amount of money that the institution(s) has
loaned to the applicant,
(ii) the date(s) the loan(s) was taken out by the
applicant, which must be no later than the date(s)
this additional capital was invested (as set out in
Table 9B, row 2),
(iii) that the institution is a UK regulated financial
institution for the purpose of granting loans,
(iv) that the applicant has personal assets with a net
value of at least £2 million, £10 million or £20 million
(as appropriate), and
(v) that the institution(s) will confirm the content of
the letter to the Home Office on request.

Qualifying investments (Table 8A to
Table 9B): notes
65. Investment excludes investment by the applicant by
way of:
(a) an offshore company or trust, or investments that
are held in offshore custody except that investments
held in offshore custody will not be excluded where:

(i) the applicant made an application before 13
December 2012 which led to a grant of entry
clearance or leave to remain as a Tier 1
(Investor) migrant,
(ii) the applicant has not since been granted
entry clearance, leave to enter or leave to
remain in any other category, and
(iii) the date of application is before 6 April 2020.
(b) Open-ended investment companies, investment
trust companies, investment syndicate companies or
pooled investment vehicles except that investment
via pooled investment vehicles is permitted if such
vehicles receive funding from a UK or devolved
government department or one if its agencies, and
the applicant provides a letter from a financial
institution regulated by the Financial Conduct
Authority to confirm this,
(c) Companies mainly engaged in property
investment, property management or property
development (meaning in this context any
investment or development of property to increase
the value of the property with a view to earning a
return either through rent or a future sale or both, or
management of property for the purposes of renting
it out or resale. The principle is that business income
must be generated from the supply of goods and/or
services and not derived from the increased value of
property or any income generated through property,
such as rent.),
(d) Deposits with a bank, building society or other
enterprise whose normal course of business
includes the acceptance of deposits,
(e) ISAs, premium bonds and saving certificates
issued by National Savings and Investment (NS&I),
for an applicant who has, or last had leave as a Tier
1 (Investor) Migrant,
(f) Leveraged investment funds, except where the
leverage in question is the security against the loan
referred to in paragraph (b) in Table 8B or row 1 of
Table 9B (as appropriate), and paragraph 61A(i)-(iii)
apply, or
(g) UK government bonds, if:
(i) the applicant’s initial grant of leave as a Tier 1

(Investor) Migrant was granted under the Rules
in place from 29 March 2019, or
(ii) the investments were held in UK Government
bonds on or after 6 April 2023 and the date of
application is on or after:
(1) 6 April 2023, if the application is for entry
clearance or leave to remain;
(2) 6 April 2025, if the application is for
indefinite leave to remain.
65AA. If an applicant invests in an entity which acts as
an intermediary vehicle to invest or otherwise channel
the funds elsewhere (including to another intermediary
vehicle):
(a) Their investment will be considered to be where
the funds are finally invested, not in the intermediary
vehicle(s) (except in the case of a governmentfunded pooled investment vehicle permitted under
paragraph 65(b) above, where the investment will be
considered to be in that vehicle);
(b) The investment in the final destination must itself
be a qualifying investment, as set out in these
Rules;
(c) Any intermediary vehicle(s) involved must not fall
within the exclusions in paragraph 65(a), (b) or (f)
above;
(d) Any intermediary vehicle(s) involved must be
based in the UK and regulated by the Financial
Conduct Authority, if:
(i) the applicant’s initial grant of leave as a Tier 1
(Investor) Migrant was granted under the Rules
in place from 29 March 2019, or
(ii) the date of application is on or after:
(1) 6 April 2023, if the application is for entry
clearance or leave to remain;
(2) 6 April 2025, if the application is for
indefinite leave to remain;
(e) The applicant must provide the specified
evidence in paragraph 65-SD in relation to the
transfer of their funds to and between any
intermediary vehicle(s), and from the intermediary

vehicle to the final investment destination. This
applies regardless of how long any chain of
intermediary vehicles is.
65A. (a) “Active and trading UK registered companies”
must meet the definition set out in (b) if:
(i) the applicant’s initial grant of leave as a Tier 1
(Investor) Migrant was granted under the Rules in
place from 29 March 2019, or
(ii) the date of application is on or after:
(1) 6 April 2023, if the application is for entry
clearance or leave to remain;
(2) 6 April 2025, if the application is for indefinite
leave to remain.
(b) In the applications set out in (a), “active and trading
UK registered companies” means companies which:
(i) are registered with Companies House in the UK;
(ii) are registered with HM Revenue and Customs
for corporation tax and PAYE;
(iii) have accounts and a UK business bank account,
both showing regular trading of its own goods or
services;
(iv) have at least two UK-based employees who are
not its directors.
(c) “Active and trading UK registered companies” must
meet the definition set out in (d) if:
(i) the applicant’s initial grant of leave as a Tier 1
(Investor) Migrant was granted under the Rules in
place before 29 March 2019, and
(ii) the date of application is before:
(1) 6 April 2023, if the application is for entry
clearance or leave to remain;
(2) 6 April 2025, if the application is for indefinite
leave to remain.
(d) In the applications set out in (c), “active and trading
UK registered companies” means companies which:
(i) have a registered office or head office in the UK;
(ii) have a UK bank account showing current
business transactions; and

(iii) are subject to UK taxation.
65B. No points will be awarded where the specified
documents show that the funds are held in a financial
institution which is not permitted under Appendix
Finance.
65C. (a) In the case of an application where Table 8A or
Table 9A applies, points for maintaining the level of
investment for the specified continuous period of leave
will only be awarded:
(i) if the applicant has purchased a portfolio of
qualifying investments for a price of at least £2
million (or £5 million or £10 million, as appropriate);
and
(ii) where any part of the qualifying investments in
the portfolio is sold (whether at a gain or at a loss)
during the specified continuous period of leave, their
gross proceeds are re-invested in qualifying
investments before the end of the next reporting
period, or within six months of the date of
completion of the sale, whichever is sooner.
(b) In the case of an application where Table 8B or
Table 9B applies, points for maintaining the level of
investment for the relevant period of leave will only be
awarded if:
(i) the applicant has maintained a portfolio of
qualifying investments with a market value of at
least £750,000 (or £3,750,000 or £7,500,000 as
appropriate);
(ii) any fall in the market value of the portfolio below
the amount in (i) is corrected before the end of the
next reporting period, or within six months of the
date of completion of the sale, whichever is sooner,
by the purchase of further qualifying investments
with a market value equal to the amount of any such
fall; and
(iii) the applicant has maintained a total level of
investment (including the qualifying investments at
(i) and (ii) above) of £1,000,000.
(c) In the case of an application where one of Tables 8A,
8B, 9A or 9B applies:
(i) The applicant may withdraw interest accrued and

dividends declared after the date on which the
applicant purchased the qualifying investments in
the portfolio;
(ii) Fees, for example those charged by institutions
for managing the portfolio, and transaction costs and
tax incurred through buying and selling investments
cannot be paid for from the investment funds for
which the applicant scores points; and
(iii) If the applicant has invested more than the
required level in qualifying investments, the fees,
transaction costs and tax referred to in (ii) above
may be paid from the surplus investment, providing
the surplus investment was made at the same time
or before the fees, transaction costs and tax were
incurred (for example, if the applicant scores points
for investing £2 million in qualifying investments, but
has actually invested £2.1 million in qualifying
investments, up to £100,000 in fees, transaction
costs and tax may be paid for from the investment
funds. The applicant must have invested £2.1 million
at or by the time he pays these costs; he cannot pay
out of a £2 million investment and invest a further
£100,000 at a later date to compensate).
65-SD. The following specified documents must be
provided as evidence of investment:
(a) The applicant must provide a series of
investment portfolio reports, certified as correct by a
UK regulated financial institution, which must:
(i) cover the required period, beginning no later
than the end of the 3 month timescale specified
in the relevant table;
(ii) continue to the last reporting date of the most
recent reporting period directly before the date of
the application;
(iii) include the price the applicant paid for the
investments, which must total at least the
amount for which points are being claimed
throughout the required period;
(iv) certify that the total investment was
maintained as required by paragraph 65C as
applicable;
(v) show the dates that the investments were

made;
(vi) show the destination of the investments;
(vii) for investments made as loan funds to
companies, be accompanied by audited
accounts or unaudited accounts with an
accounts compilation report for the investments
made, giving the full details of the applicant’s
investment. The accountant must have a valid
licence to practise or practising certificate and
must be a member of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants in England and Wales, the Institute
of Chartered Accountants in Scotland, the
Institute of Chartered Accountants in Ireland, the
Association of Chartered Certified Accountants,
or the Association of Authorised Public
Accountants, the Chartered Institute of Public
Finance and Accountancy, the Institute of
Financial Accountants, the Chartered Institute of
Management Accountants, or the Association of
International Accountants;
(viii) include the name and contact details of the
financial institution that has certified the portfolio
as correct and, except for National Savings and
Investment (NS&I) portfolio reports, confirmation
that this institution is regulated by the Financial
Conduct Authority (FCA) (and the Prudential
Regulation Authority (PRA) where applicable);
(ix) confirm that the investments were made in
the applicant’s name and/or that of his spouse,
civil partner, unmarried or same-sex partner and
not in the name of an offshore company or trust
even if this is wholly owned by the applicant;
(x) include the date that the portfolio was
certified by the financial institution;
(xi) state that the institution will confirm the
content of the reports to the Home Office on
request; and
(xii) confirmation that the portfolio is
unencumbered and has no loans secured
against it; and
(xiii) confirmation that none of the investments
being relied on are prohibited by paragraph
65(a) to (f).

(b) DELETED
(c) Where the applicant is applying under Table 8B
or Table 9B and has invested at least 75% of the
specified investment amount but less than 100%, he
must provide one or more of the following specified
documents as evidence of the balance of the funds
required to bring his total investment in the UK up to
the specified investment amount:
(i) Documents confirming the purchase of assets
in the UK, showing the assets purchased, the
value of these assets and the dates of purchase.
When using property, only the unmortgaged
portion of the applicant’s own main home,
excluding any share owned by any other person
in the case of a tenancy in common, will count
towards the balance of funds. The valuation of
the portion of the property that the applicant may
rely on, must be provided in a report issued by a
surveyor (who is a member of the Royal
Institution of Chartered Surveyors), which is
dated not earlier than six months prior to the
date of application. The property must be:
(1) wholly owned by the applicant or
(2) co-owned by the applicant and their
spouse, civil partner, or partner, or
(3) co-owned by the applicant with one or
more persons as tenants in common;
(ii) If the applicant maintained money on deposit
in the UK, a statement or statements of account
on the official stationery of the institution that
holds the funds. These statements must be in
the name of the applicant (or applicant and/or
the husband, wife, civil partner, or unmarried or
same-sex partner of the applicant) and confirm
the dates and amount of money held. The
applicant must ensure that the institution will
confirm the content of the statement to the Home
Office on request;
(iii) A letter from the financial institution that
holds the cash on deposit, on the institution’s
official headed paper, issued by an authorised
official of that institution, which confirms the
dates and amount of money held and that the
institution will confirm the content of the letter to

the Home Office on request.
(d) If the applicant wishes the start of the 3
month timescale specified in Table 8A, Table 8B,
Table 9A or Table 9B to be taken as the date he
entered the UK, he must provide evidence which
proves this date, such as a stamp in the
applicant’s passport, or an aircraft boarding card.
(e) Evidence of the investment having been
maintained, from the date that the funds were
invested for the full period of remaining leave,
will be determined using the portfolio reports
provided in (a).

Attributes for Tier 1 (Graduate
Entrepreneur) Migrants
66. The attributes for this category have been deleted
as the category is now closed and has been replaced by
the Start-up category in Appendix W.
67 - 72. DELETED.

Attributes for Tier 2 (Intra-Company
Transfer) Migrants
73. DELETED
73A. DELETED
73B. DELETED

Certificate of Sponsorship
74. DELETED
74A. DELETED
74B. DELETED
74C. DELETED
74C-SD(a) DELETED
74D. DELETED

74E. DELETED
74F. DELETED
74G. DELETED
74H. DELETED
74I. DELETED

Appropriate salary
75. DELETED
75A. DELETED
75B. DELETED
75C. DELETED
75D. DELETED
75E. DELETED

Attributes for Tier 2 (General) Migrants
76. DELETED
76A. DELETED
76B. DELETED

Certificate of Sponsorship
77. DELETED
77A. DELETED
77B. DELETED
77C. DELETED
77D. DELETED
77E. DELETED
77F. DELETED
77G. DELETED
77H. DELETED

77I. DELETED
77J. DELETED
77K. DELETED

Job offer passes Resident Labour
Market Test
78. DELETED
78A.DELETED
78B. DELETED
78C. DELETED
78D. DELETED

Appropriate salary
79. DELETED
79A. DELETED
79B. DELETED
79C. DELETED
79D. DELETED

Tier 2 (General) limit
80. DELETED
80A. DELETED
80B. DELETED
80D. DELETED
80E. DELETED
81. DELETED
81A. DELETED
81B. DELETED
81C. DELETED

81D. DELETED
81E. DELETED
81F. DELETED
81G. DELETED
81H. DELETED
81I. DELETED
82. DELETED
82A. DELETED
82B. DELETED
82C. DELETED
82D. DELETED
83. DELETED
83A. DELETED
83C. DELETED
83D. DELETED
83E. DELETED
84. DELETED
84A. DELETED

Attributes for Tier 2 (Ministers of
Religion) Migrants
85. DELETED
86. DELETED
87. DELETED
88. DELETED
89. DELETED
90. DELETED
90A. DELETED
91. DELETED

92. DELETED
92A. DELETED

Attributes for Tier 2 (Sportsperson)
Migrants
93. DELETED
94. DELETED
95. DELETED
96. DELETED
97. DELETED
98. DELETED
98A. DELETED
99. DELETED
100 DELETED

Attributes for Tier5 (Youth Mobility
Scheme) Temporary Migrants
101. DELETED
102. DELETED
103. DELETED
104. DELETED

Attributes for Tier5 (Temporary Worker)
Migrants
105. DELETED
106. DELETED
107. DELETED
108. DELETED
109. DELETED
109A. DELETED

110. DELETED
111. DELETED
111-SD DELETED
112. DELETED

Attributes for Tier 4 (General) Students
113. DELETED
114. DELETED
115. DELETED
115A. DELETED
115B - 115I DELETED
116. DELETED
117. DELETED
118. DELETED
119. DELETED
120. DELETED

Specified documents
120-SD. DELETED
120A DELETED

Attributes for Tier 4 (Child) Students
121. DELETED
122. DELETED
123. DELETED
123A. DELETED
124. DELETED
125. DELETED

125A. DELETED

Specified documents
125-SD. DELETED
126. DELETED

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

© Crown copyright

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix
Administrative Review
Administrative Review
Administrative review is the review of an eligible
decision, the purpose of which is to decide whether the
decision was wrong due to a case working error.
This appendix sets out which decisions are eligible for
administrative review, and the requirements to be met
where a person applies for administrative review of an
eligible decision.

Eligibility requirements for
administrative review
Specified route requirements for administrative
review in relation to applications for entry clearance
or permission to stay
AR 1.1. The decisions eligible for administrative review

are those under the following routes (“specified route”):
• Appendix ECAA: Extension of Stay
• Appendix Student
• Appendix Short-term Student (English Language)
• Appendix Child Student
• Appendix Parent of a Child Student
• Appendix Graduate
• Appendix Skilled Worker
• Appendix Global Business Mobility Routes
• Appendix T2 Minister of Religion
• Appendix Representative of an Overseas Business
• Appendix UK Ancestry
• Appendix Global Talent
• Appendix High Potential Individual
• Appendix Scale-up
• Appendix Start-up
• Appendix Innovator
• Appendix International Sportsperson
• Appendix Overseas Domestic Worker
• Appendix Domestic Workers in a Private
Household
• Appendix Domestic Worker who is a Victim of
Modern Slavery
• Appendix Temporary Work – Seasonal Worker
• Appendix Temporary Work – Creative Worker
• Appendix Temporary Work – Religious Worker
• Appendix Temporary Work – Charity Worker
• Appendix Temporary Work – International
Agreement
• Appendix Temporary Work – Government
Authorised Exchange
• Appendix Youth Mobility Scheme
• Appendix Hong Kong British National (Overseas)

• Appendix Gurkha and Hong Kong military unit
veteran discharged before 1 July 1997, except
where the applicant is 18 years of age or older and
applying as a dependent child
• Appendix Bereaved Partner
• Appendix Victim of Domestic Abuse
• Appendix Returning Resident
• Appendix Statelessness
• Tier 1 Migrants under Part 6A of the Points Based
System
• Appendix HM Armed Forces, except where the
applicant is a partner or child under Appendix HM
Armed Forces and the Armed Forces sponsor is a
British citizen, or has 4 years reckonable service
• Appendix International Armed Forces and
International Civilian Employees
AR 1.2. Where a person made a valid application on a
specified route eligible for administrative review before 4
April 2024, the requirements of Appendix AR:
administrative review in force on 3 April 2024 will apply,
apart from applications under Appendix HM Armed
Forces where the requirements in force on 10 April
2024 will apply.

Validity requirements for administrative
review
AR 2.1. An application for administrative review must
relate to one of the following decisions (“the eligible
decision”):
(a) a decision to refuse an application for entry
clearance; or
(b) a decision to refuse an application for permission
to enter; or
(c) a decision to refuse an application for permission
to stay; or
(d) a decision to cancel permission to enter or stay
made on the person’s arrival in the UK, where the
result of the cancellation is the person has no
permission, and where the reason for the

cancellation is:
(i) there has been a change of circumstances
since permission was granted which means that
permission should be cancelled; or
(ii) permission was obtained as a result of false
representations by the person or by their failure
to disclose material facts.
(e) DELETED.
AR 2.2. An application for administrative review must
relate to a decision on a specified route (see AR 1.1.).
AR 2.3. An application for administrative review must
not relate to an eligible decision taken under Appendix
EU, Appendix EU (Family Permit), Appendix S2
Healthcare Visitor or Appendix Service Providers from
Switzerland, unless the decision was made before 5
October 2023 to:
(a) cancel leave to enter or remain which is in force
under paragraph A3.2(b) of Annex 3 to Appendix EU
or paragraph A3.4(b) of Annex 3 to Appendix EU
(Family Permit); or
(b) cancel permission to enter or stay which is in
force under paragraph HV11.1 (c) of Appendix S2
Healthcare Visitor; or
(c) cancel permission to enter which is in force
under paragraph SPS 9.1(c) of Appendix Service
Providers from Switzerland.
AR 2.4. A person applying for administrative review
must apply online on the Administrative Review form on
the gov.uk website.
AR 2.5. An application for administrative review must
meet all the following requirements:
(a) any fee must have been paid; and
(b) the application must have been made within the
relevant time period set out in AR 2.6, unless AR
2.14. applies.
AR 2.6. The time limit for making an application for
administrative review is
(a) where the eligible decision is a refusal of an

application for permission to stay or a decision to
cancel permission to enter or stay in the UK, and on
the date of the decision the person was detained
under the Immigration Acts, 7 calendar days from
the date they receive notice of the eligible decision;
and
(b) where the eligible decision is a refusal of an
application for entry clearance, 28 calendar days
from the date the person receives the notice of the
eligible decision; and
(c) where the eligible decision is a refusal of an
application for permission to stay, and the person is
not detained, 14 calendar days from the date in
which the person receives notice of the eligible
decision; and
(d) where the eligible decision is a decision to cancel
permission to enter or stay in the UK, and the
person is not detained, 14 calendar days from the
date on which the person received notice of the
eligible decision; and
(e) where the administrative review relates to the
period of grant or conditions of grant, 14 calendar
days after the person receives notice of the grant of
permission specifying the length and conditions of
their permission.
AR 2.7. An application for administrative review is made
on the date on which it is submitted online.
AR 2.8. There must not previously have been an
application for administrative review in relation to the
eligible decision, unless on a previous application for
administrative review the eligible decision was
maintained for different or additional reasons, in which
case an application for administrative review can be
made in relation to the maintained decision.
AR 2.9. Where the eligible decision is a refusal of an
application for entry clearance, a person can only apply
for administrative review if they are outside the UK.
AR 2.10. Where the eligible decision is made in the
Control Zone, a person cannot apply for administrative
review until they have left, or been removed from, the
Control Zone.

AR 2.11. A person may only include an eligible decision
for a partner, dependent child or other family member in
their application for administrative review where that
family member:
(a) was a dependent in the application which
resulted in the eligible decision; or
(b) was previously granted permission to enter or
stay as a dependent of the applicant for
administrative review and that permission is being
cancelled at the same time the applicant’s
permission is being cancelled.
AR 2.12. An application for administrative review of an
eligible decision under Appendix AR may not be made if
the applicant has previously signed an administrative
review waiver form in respect of the eligible decision.
AR 2.13. An application for administrative review which
does not meet all the validity requirements for
administrative review must be rejected as invalid and
not considered, unless AR 2.14. applies.
AR 2.14. The application for administrative review may
be accepted outside the relevant time limit in AR 2.6. if
the decision maker is satisfied that it would be unjust
not to waive the time limit and that the application was
made as soon as reasonably practicable.
AR 2.15. A person who applied for permission to stay
whilst they were in the UK cannot apply for an
administrative review of the decision on that application
from outside of the UK.
AR 2.16. If a person who has received an eligible
decision under AR 1.1 makes a subsequent application
for entry clearance, permission to enter or permission to
stay, any application for administrative review of the
previous eligible decision will not be valid.

Consideration of application for
administrative review
AR 3.1. The decision maker conducting the
administrative review (“the reviewer”) will decide
whether the eligible decision is incorrect because:

(a) the decision maker of the eligible decision failed
to apply, or incorrectly applied, the relevant
Immigration Rules; or
(b) the decision maker of the eligible decision failed
to apply, or incorrectly applied, published guidance.
AR 3.2. The reviewer will consider whether the applicant
for administrative review is entitled to entry clearance or
permission on the basis of the original application and
will not consider whether the applicant is entitled to
entry clearance or permission on any other basis.
AR 3.3. Where evidence which was not before the
original decision maker is submitted with the application
for administrative review, the reviewer will only consider
that evidence where the eligible decision was:
(a) a decision under Part 9 on or before 10
November 2025 or Part Suitability of these rules to
refuse an application on the grounds of false
representations or deception; or
(b) a decision under Part 9 on or before 10
November 2025 or Part Suitability of these rules, to
cancel entry clearance, permission to enter or
permission to stay on the grounds of false
representations or deception; or
(c) a decision to refuse an application for entry
clearance under Part 9 on or before 10 November or
Part Suitability of these rules on the grounds of a
previous breach of immigration laws; or
(d) a decision not to request specified documents
under paragraph 245AA of these rules; or
(e) a failure to follow the evidential flexibility policy
published on gov.uk.
AR 3.4. Where evidence would be admissible under AR
3.3, the reviewer may contact the applicant to request
further information and specify a reasonable timeframe
for receipt of that information.
AR 3.5. Where the requested information is not
provided within the timeframe specified, the reviewer
may consider the administrative review on the available
information.

Effect of an administrative review
AR 4.1. Where an administrative review is pending in
relation to a decision made while the person was in the
UK the applicant for administrative review will not be
removed from the UK.
AR 4.2. Subject to AR 4.3, an administrative review is
pending where:
(a) the relevant time limit for applying for an
administrative review has not passed; or
(b) an application for administrative review has been
made and has not been rejected as invalid, decided
or withdrawn.
AR 4.3. An administrative review will be treated as
withdrawn:
(a) where the applicant has waived their right to
apply for administrative review by signing an
administrative review waiver form; or
(b) the applicant leaves the UK; or
(c) the applicant requests the return of their passport
because they want to travel outside the UK.
AR 4.4. Where a person has a pending administrative
review and they make a new application for entry
clearance or permission to enter or stay, the
administrative review is treated as withdrawn the day
before the new application was made.
AR 4.5. Where an applicant signs an administrative
review waiver form or notifies the Home Office that they
wish to withdraw their administrative review, the
administrative review will be treated as withdrawn on
the date the notification is received.

Decision on an administrative review
AR 5.1. The outcome of an administrative review will be
one of the following:
(a) the administrative review succeeds, and the
eligible decision is withdrawn (and will be
reconsidered); or

(b) the administrative review does not succeed, and
the eligible decision remains in force for all of the
reasons given in that decision; or
(c) the administrative review does not succeed, and
the eligible decision remains in force, but one or
more of the reasons given for that decision are
withdrawn; or
(d) the administrative review does not succeed, and
the eligible decision remains in force, but with
different or additional reasons to those given for that
decision.

Service of notices
AR 6.1. A decision on an administrative review is to be
served in accordance with Appendix SN of these Rules.

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

© Crown copyright

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Adoption - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:03 pm

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix Adoption
The adoption routes are for a child under
the age of 18 to apply to come to the UK
either to be adopted or having been
adopted overseas.
If a child is granted temporary permission under
Appendix Adoption, they would need to apply for
settlement under paragraph 298 in Part 8; or for
settlement on the route their adoptive parent is on.
Where an adoption has taken place in a country where
the adoption is recognised under UK law and the
adoptive parent(s) were resident in that country at the
time of the adoption, the adopted child may make an
application as a dependent child on the same route as
their parent(s).
There are four adoption routes:
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-adoption

Page 1 of 23

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Adoption - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:03 pm

Hague Convention: this route applies where the
adoption is via an adoption agency under the Hague
Convention on Protection of Children and Co-operation
in Respect of Intercountry Adoption. Most Hague
Convention adoptions will be completed overseas,
however for some countries the adoption is completed
in the UK and the child must apply for entry clearance to
come to the UK for the adoption to be completed.
Recognised Overseas Adoptions: this route allows a
child to apply for entry clearance to come to the UK
where they have been adopted overseas in a country
where the adoption is recognised under UK law, or
where the adoption has been recognised by order of the
High Court in the UK.
De facto Adoption: this route is for a child to apply for
entry clearance where the child has been living with
their adoptive parent(s) overseas for at least 12 months
and there has been a genuine transfer of parental
responsibility.
Coming to the UK for adoption: this route is for a child
to apply for entry clearance where they are in a country
whose adoptions are not recognised in the UK and the
child is coming to the UK to be adopted under UK law.
Where applicable the relevant UK authority must have
issued the adopters with a certificate of eligibility to
adopt.
Adoption is a route to settlement.

Adoption: Hague Convention
Entry clearance for the Adoption: Hague Convention
route
Validity requirements for the Adoption: Hague
Convention route
AD 1.1. A child applying for entry clearance on the
Adoption: Hague Convention route must apply online on
the gov.uk website on the specified form: ‘Non-British
adopted child or child coming to the UK for adoption of a
parent or parents who are British citizens or settled in
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-adoption

Page 2 of 23

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Adoption - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:03 pm

the UK’.
AD 1.2. An application for entry clearance must meet all
the following requirements:
(a) any fee and the Immigration Health Charge must
have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other document which satisfactorily establishes their
identity and nationality.
AD 1.3. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements of the Adoption: Hague
Convention route may be rejected as invalid and not
considered.
Suitability requirements for the Adoption: Hague
Convention route
AD 2.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under Part
Suitability.
Eligibility requirements for the Adoption: Hague
Convention route
Entry requirements for the Adoption: Hague
Convention route
AD 3.1. A child seeking to come to the UK under the
Adoption: Hague Convention route must apply for and
obtain entry clearance on the Adoption: Hague
Convention route before they arrive in the UK.
AD 3.2. A child applying for entry clearance on the
Adoption: Hague Convention route must, if Appendix
Tuberculosis applies, provide a valid medical certificate
confirming they have undergone screening for active
pulmonary tuberculosis and that this tuberculosis is not
present in them.
Adoption requirements for the Adoption: Hague
Convention route
AD 4.1. The adoptive parents or, if there is sole
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-adoption

Page 3 of 23

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Adoption - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:03 pm

responsibility, the adoptive parent, must be habitually
resident in the UK.
AD 4.2. The adoption must be the subject of an
agreement made under Article 17(c) of the Hague
Convention.
AD 4.3. The applicant must have been entrusted to the
adoptive parent(s) by the competent administrative
authority of the child’s country of origin the purpose of
adoption under the Hague Convention.
AD 4.4. The decision maker must be satisfied that the
adoption is not one of convenience arranged to facilitate
the admission of the child to the UK.
Dependent child requirements for the Adoption:
Hague Convention route
AD 5.1. The applicant must meet the following
requirements for a dependent child in Appendix
Children:
(a) age requirement; and
(b) independent life requirement; and
(c) care requirement.
Immigration status requirements of parents for the
Adoption: Hague Convention route
AD 6.1. The applicant must be joining their adoptive
parent(s) and one of the following must apply:
(a) both adoptive parents are British Citizens, are
settled in the UK, or live in the UK and have a right
to stay without restriction; or
(b) the adoptive parent has sole responsibility for the
applicant and is a British Citizen, is settled in the UK,
or lives in the UK and has a right to stay without
restriction.
Financial requirements for the Adoption: Hague
Convention route
AD 7.1. The applicant must show that they will be
adequately maintained in the UK by the adoptive
parent(s), without access to public funds.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-adoption

Page 4 of 23

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Adoption - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:03 pm

AD 7.2. The applicant must provide evidence from the
adoptive parent(s) of income or cash savings sufficient
to show the financial requirement is met, and:
(a) evidence from income (other than selfemployment) or savings must cover the 6-month
period immediately before the date of application; or
(b) where the adoptive parent(s) is receiving
maternity, paternity, adoption or sick pay, their
income from salaried employment can be shown for
either the 6 months immediately before the date of
application or the start date of the maternity,
paternity, adoption or sick leave; or
(c) where the income is from self-employment it
must be shown for the last full financial year before
the date of application, with additional evidence of
ongoing self-employment as in paragraphs 7 or 9
(as relevant) of Appendix FM-SE; or
(d) where there is non-employment income it must
be shown to have been received in the 12 months
before the date of application except where specified
in paragraph 10 of Appendix FM-SE; or
(e) where property has been sold and the money
received has been converted into cash savings the
requirements in paragraph 11A(d) of Appendix FMSE must be met.
AD 7.3. The applicant must show they meet the financial
requirement as set out in Appendix FM-SE.
Accommodation requirement for the Adoption:
Hague Convention route
AD 8.1. The applicant’s accommodation in the UK must
not be overcrowded or contravene public health
regulations.
Eligibility under Article 8 of the Human Rights
Convention for the Adoption: Hague Convention
route
AD 9.1. If the applicant meets the Requirements for
Adoption, but does not meet the suitability or other
eligibility requirements (subject to AD 9.2.), the decision
maker must be satisfied that refusal of the application
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-adoption

Page 5 of 23

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Adoption - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:03 pm

would breach Article 8 of the Human Rights Convention,
because it would result in unjustifiably harsh
consequences for the applicant or their adoptive family.
AD 9.2. Where AD 9.1. applies and the applicant falls
for refusal under SUI 2.1, SUI 2.3, SUI 3.1., SUI 4.1,
SUI 5.1. of Part Suitability, the application on the
Adoption: Hague Convention route must be refused.
Decision on an application on the Adoption: Hague
Convention route
AD 10.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that the
validity, suitability and eligibility requirements are met, or
the applicant meets the eligibility requirements at AD
4.1. to AD 4.4. and AD 9.1. (unless paragraph AD 9.2.
applies), the applicant will be granted entry clearance on
the Adoption: Hague Convention route, otherwise the
application will be refused.
Period of grant on the Adoption: Hague Convention
route
AD 11.1. The applicant will be granted entry clearance
for 24 months, which is to allow the Hague adoption to
be completed in the UK.
Conditions of grant on the Adoption: Hague
Convention route
AD 12.2. The grant will be subject to the following
conditions:
(a) work is permitted; and
(b) study is permitted; and
(c) no access to public funds.

Adoption: Recognised Overseas
Adoption
Entry clearance for the Adoption: Recognised
Overseas Adoption route
Validity requirements for the Adoption: Recognised
Overseas Adoption route
AD 13.1. A child applying for entry clearance on the
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-adoption

Page 6 of 23

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Adoption - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:03 pm

Adoption: Recognised Overseas Adoption route must
apply online on the gov.uk website on the specified
form: ‘Non-British adopted child or child coming to the
UK for adoption of a parent or parents who are British
citizens or settled in the UK’.
AD 13.2. An application for entry clearance on the
Adoption: Recognised Overseas Adoption route must
meet all the following requirements:
(a) any fee and Immigration Health Charge must
have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other document which satisfactorily establishes their
identity and nationality.
AD 13.3. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for the Adoption: Recognised
Overseas Adoption route may be rejected as invalid and
not considered.
Suitability requirement for the Adoption:
Recognised Overseas Adoption route
AD 14.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
Eligibility requirements for the Adoption:
Recognised Overseas Adoption route
Entry requirements for the Adoption: Recognised
Overseas Adoption route
AD 15.1. A child seeking to come to the UK on the
Recognised Overseas Adoption route must apply for
and obtain entry clearance on the Adoption: Overseas
Adoption route before they arrive in the UK.
AD 15.2. A child applying for entry clearance on the
Recognised Overseas Adoption route must, if Appendix
Tuberculosis applies, provide a valid medical certificate
confirming they have undergone screening for active
pulmonary tuberculosis and that this tuberculosis is not
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-adoption

Page 7 of 23

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Adoption - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:03 pm

present in them.
Adoption requirements for Adoption: Recognised
Overseas Adoption route
AD 16.1. The applicant must have been legally adopted
in a country whose adoption orders are, or at the time of
the applicant’s adoption were, recognised under UK law.
AD 16.2. The overseas adoption must have been in
accordance with a decision taken by the competent
Central Authority, as set out in AD 16.4., or court in the
child’s country of origin, or the country in which they are
resident.
AD 16.3. The applicant must provide evidence from the
relevant Central Authority to confirm a Certificate of
Eligibility has been issued if the adoption engages the
requirements in:
(a) section 83 of the Adoption and Children Act
2002; or
(b) articles 58ZA and 58ZB of the Adoption
(Northern Ireland) Order 1987; or
(c) section 58 of the Adoption and Children
(Scotland) Act 2007.
AD 16.4. For the purpose of this Appendix “Central
Authority” depends on the country of habitual residence
for the adoptive parent: for residents in England, the
Central Authority for an adoption under the Hague
Convention is the Department for Education and the
Devolved Administrations in Wales, Scotland and
Northern Ireland and the Isle of Man Government are
Central Authorities in their respective regions.
AD 16.5. If the requirements in AD 16.1. and AD 16.2.
are not met, the adoption must have been recognised
by order of the High Court in the UK.
AD 16.6. The decision maker must be satisfied that the
adoption is not one of convenience arranged to facilitate
the admission of the child to the UK.
Dependent child requirements for the Adoption:
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-adoption

Page 8 of 23

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Adoption - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:03 pm

Recognised Overseas Adoption route
AD 17.1. The applicant must meet the following
requirements for a dependent child in Appendix
Children:
(a) age requirement; and
(b) independent life requirement; and
(c) care requirement.
Immigration status requirements of parents for the
Adoption: Recognised Overseas Adoption route
AD 18.1. The applicant must be joining or
accompanying their adoptive parent(s) and one of the
following must apply:
(a) both adoptive parents are British Citizens, are
settled in the UK, or live in the UK and have a right
to stay without restriction; or
(b) the adoptive parent has sole responsibility for the
applicant and is a British Citizen, is settled in the UK
or lives in the UK and has a right to stay without
restriction; or
(c) one adoptive parent is a British Citizen, or is
settled in the UK, or lives in the UK and has a right
to stay without restriction and the other adoptive
parent has, or is applying for (and is granted), entry
clearance or permission to stay on a route to
settlement; or
(d) the adoptive parent has sole parental
responsibility, and is applying for (and is granted),
entry clearance or permission on a route to
settlement; or
(e) one adoptive parent is a British Citizen, is settled,
or lives in the UK and has a right to stay without
restriction and the decision maker is satisfied there
are serious and compelling reasons to grant the
applicant entry clearance; or
(f) one adoptive parent has, or is applying for (and is
granted), entry clearance or permission to stay on a
route to settlement and the decision maker is
satisfied there are serious and compelling reasons
to grant the applicant entry clearance.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-adoption

Page 9 of 23

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Adoption - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:03 pm

Financial requirements for the Adoption:
Recognised Overseas Adoption route
AD 19.1. The applicant must show that they will be
adequately maintained in the UK by their adoptive
parent(s) without access to public funds, unless AD
19.2. applies.
AD 19.2. Where the adoptive parent(s) of the applicant
has, or is applying for (and is granted), entry clearance
or permission to stay on a route to settlement, the
applicant must meet the financial requirement for a
dependent child under that route.
AD 19.3. The applicant must provide evidence from the
adoptive parent(s) of income or cash savings sufficient
to show the financial requirement is met, and:
(a) evidence from income (other than selfemployment) or savings must cover the 6-month
period immediately before the date of application; or
(b) where the sponsor is receiving maternity,
paternity, adoption or sick pay, their income from
salaried employment can be shown for either the 6
months immediately before the date of application or
the start date of the maternity, paternity, adoption or
sick leave; or
(c) where the income is from self-employment it
must be shown for the last full financial year before
the date of application, with additional evidence of
ongoing self-employment as in paragraphs 7 or 9
(as relevant) of Appendix FM-SE; or
(d) where there is non-employment income it must
be shown to have been received in the 12 months
before the date of application except where specified
in paragraph 10 of Appendix FM-SE; or
(e) where property has been sold and the money
received has been converted into cash savings the
requirements in paragraph 11A(d) of Appendix FMSE must be met.
AD 19.4. The applicant must show they meet the
financial requirement as set out in Appendix FM-SE.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-adoption

Page 10 of 23

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Adoption - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:03 pm

Accommodation requirement for the Adoption:
Recognised Overseas Adoption route
AD 20.1. The applicant’s accommodation in the UK
must not be overcrowded or contravene public health
regulations.
Eligibility under Article 8 of the Human Rights
Convention for the Adoption: Recognised Overseas
Adoption route
AD 21.1. If the applicant meets the Requirements for
Adoption, but does not meet the suitability or other
eligibility requirements (subject to AD 21.2.), the
decision maker must be satisfied that refusal of the
application would breach Article 8 of the Human Rights
Convention, because it would result in unjustifiably
harsh consequences for the applicant or their adoptive
family.
AD 21.2. Where AD 21.1. applies and the applicant falls
for refusal under SUI 2.1, SUI 2.3, SUI 3.1, SUI 4.1, and
SUI 5.1. of Part Suitability, the application on the
Adoption: Recognised Overseas Adoption route, must
be refused.
Decision on an application on the Adoption:
Recognised Overseas Adoption route
AD 22.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that the
validity, suitability and the relevant eligibility
requirements are met, or the applicant meets the
eligibility requirements at AD16.1. to AD 16.6 and
AD21.1. (unless paragraph AD 21.2. applies), the
applicant will be granted permission to stay on the
Adoption: Recognised Overseas Adoption route,
otherwise the application will be refused.
Period of grant on the Adoption: Recognised
Overseas Adoption route
AD 23.1. The applicant will be granted settlement, if
either:
(a) both adoptive parents are a British Citizen,
settled or live in the UK and have a right to stay
without restriction; or
(b) in the case of sole parental responsibility, the
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-adoption

Page 11 of 23

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Adoption - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:03 pm

adoptive parent is a British Citizen, settled or lives in
the UK and has a right to stay without restriction,
AD 23.2. If the adoptive parent(s) is not a British Citizen,
settled or living in the UK with a right to stay without
restriction, the applicant will be granted permission
which ends on the same date as the permission granted
to their adoptive parent(s).
Conditions of grant on the Adoption: Recognised
Overseas Adoption route
AD 24.1. The grant will be subject to the following
conditions:
(a) work is permitted: and
(b) study is permitted; and
(c) no access to public funds.

De Facto Adoption
Entry clearance for the Adoption: De Facto route
Validity requirements for Adoption: De Facto route
AD 25.1. A child applying for entry clearance on the
Adoption: de facto route must apply online on the gov.uk
website on the specified form ‘Non-British adopted child
or child coming to the UK for adoption of a parent or
parents who are British citizens or settled in the UK’.
AD 25.2. An application for entry clearance on the
Adoption: de facto route must meet all the following
requirements:
(a) any fee and the Immigration Health Charge must
have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other document which satisfactorily establishes their
identity and nationality.
AD 25.3. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for the Adoption: de facto route
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-adoption

Page 12 of 23

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Adoption - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:03 pm

may be rejected as invalid and not considered.
Suitability requirement for the Adoption: De Facto
route
AD 26.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
Eligibility requirements for the Adoption: De Facto
route
Entry requirements for the Adoption: De Facto route
AD 27.1. A child seeking to come to the UK under the
Adoption: De Facto route must apply for and obtain
entry clearance on the Adoption: de facto route before
they arrive in the UK.
AD 27.2. A person applying for entry clearance on the
Adoption: De Facto route must, if Appendix
Tuberculosis applies, provide a valid medical certificate
confirming they have undergone screening for active
pulmonary tuberculosis and that this tuberculosis is not
present in them.
Adoption requirements for the Adoption: De Facto
route
AD 28.1. At the date of application, the adoptive parents
must both have:
(a) been resident together overseas for at least 18
months; and
(b) lived with the applicant for the 12 months
immediately before the date of application; and
(c) assumed the role of the applicant’s parent(s)
since the beginning of the 18- month period, so that
there has been a genuine transfer of parental
responsibility.
AD 28.2. Where the adoptive parent has sole
responsibility, at the date of application they must have:
(a) been resident overseas for at least 18 months;
and
(b) lived with the applicant for the 12 months
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-adoption

Page 13 of 23

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Adoption - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:03 pm

immediately before the date of application; and
(c) assumed the role of the applicant’s parent since
the beginning of the 18-month period, so that there
has been a genuine transfer of parental
responsibility.
AD 28.3. The applicant must provide evidence that:
(a) the de facto adoption is not one of convenience
arranged to facilitate the applicant’s admission to the
UK; and
(b) they will have the same rights and obligations as
any other child of the de facto adoptive parent(s)’s
family; and
(c) the birth parent(s) or those looking after the
applicant immediately before they were physically
transferred to the care of their de facto adoptive
parent(s) are unable to care for the applicant; and
(d) the applicant has broken or lost ties with their
biological family.
Dependent child requirements for the Adoption: De
Facto route
AD 29.1. The applicant must meet the following
requirements for a dependent child in Appendix
Children:
(a) age requirement; and
(b) independent life requirement; and
(c) care requirement.
Immigration status requirement of parents for the
Adoption: De Facto route
AD 30.1. The applicant must be accompanying their
adoptive parent(s) and one of the following must apply:
(a) both adoptive parents are British Citizens, are
settled in the UK, or have a right to stay in the UK
without restriction or are being admitted to the UK
for settlement; or
(b) the adoptive parent has sole responsibility for the
applicant and is a British Citizen, is settled in the UK,
or has a right to stay in the UK without restriction, or
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-adoption

Page 14 of 23

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Adoption - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:03 pm

is being admitted to the UK for settlement; or
(c) one adoptive parent is a British Citizen, or is
settled in the UK, or has a right to stay in the UK
without restriction, or is being admitted to the UK for
settlement and the other adoptive parent has or is
being given permission to come to the UK on a route
to settlement; or
(d) one adoptive parent is a British Citizen, or is
settled in the UK, or has a right to stay in the UK
without restriction, or is being admitted to the UK for
settlement, and the decision maker is satisfied there
are serious and compelling reasons to grant the
applicant entry clearance.
Financial requirements for the Adoption: De Facto
route
AD 31.1. The applicant must show that they will be
adequately maintained in the UK by the adoptive
parent(s) without access to public funds, unless AD
31.2. applies.
AD 31.2. Where an adoptive parent of the applicant has,
or is applying for, permission on a route to settlement,
the applicant must meet the financial requirement as a
dependent child under that route.
AD 31.3. The applicant must provide evidence from the
adoptive parent(s) of income or cash savings sufficient
to show the financial requirement is met, and:
(a) evidence from income (other than selfemployment) or savings must cover the 6-month
period immediately before the date of application; or
(b) where the sponsor is receiving maternity,
paternity, adoption or sick pay, their income from
salaried employment can be shown for either the 6
months immediately before the date of application or
the start date of the maternity, paternity, adoption or
sick leave; or
(c) where the income is from self-employment it
must be shown for the last full financial year before
the date of application, with additional evidence of
ongoing self-employment as in paragraphs 7 or 9
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-adoption

Page 15 of 23

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Adoption - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:03 pm

(as relevant) of Appendix FM-SE; or
(d) where there is non-employment income it must
be shown to have been received in the 12 months
before the date of application except where specified
in paragraph 10 of Appendix FM-SE; or
(e) where property has been sold and the money
received has been converted into cash savings the
requirements in paragraph 11A(d) of Appendix FMSE must be met.
AD 31.4. The applicant must show they meet the
financial requirement as set out in Appendix FM-SE.
Accommodation requirement for the Adoption: De
Facto route
AD 32.1. The applicant’s accommodation in the UK
must not be overcrowded or contravene public health
regulations.
Eligibility under Article 8 of the Human Rights
Convention for the Adoption: De Facto route
AD 33.1. If the applicant meets the requirements for
Adoption but does not meet the suitability or other
eligibility requirements (subject to AD 33.2.), the
decision maker must be satisfied that refusal of the
application would breach Article 8 of the Human Rights
Convention, because it would result in unjustifiably
harsh consequences for the applicant or their adoptive
family.
AD 33.2. Where AD 33.1. applies and the applicant falls
for refusal under SUI 2.1, SUI 2.3, SUI 3.1, SUI 4.1, and
SUI 5.1. of Part Suitability, the application on the
Adoption: De Facto route, must be refused.
Decision on an application for the Adoption: De
Facto route
AD 34.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that the
validity, suitability and the relevant eligibility
requirements are met, or the applicant meets the
eligibility requirements at AD 28.1. to AD 28.3. and AD
33.1. (unless paragraph AD 33.2. applies), the applicant
will be granted permission to stay on the Adoption: De
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-adoption

Page 16 of 23

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Adoption - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:03 pm

Facto route, otherwise the application will be refused.
Period of grant for the Adoption: De Facto route
AD 35.1. The applicant will be granted settlement, if
either:
(a) both adoptive parents are a British Citizen,
settled or have a right to stay in the UK without
restriction; or
(b) in the case of sole parental responsibility, the
adoptive parent is a British Citizen, settled or has a
right to stay in the UK without restriction.
AD 35.2. In all other cases the applicant will be granted
permission which ends on the same date as the
permission granted to their de facto adoptive parent.
Conditions of grant for the Adoption: De Facto route
AD 36.1. The grant will be subject to the following
conditions:
(a) work is permitted: and
(b) study is permitted, and
(c) no access to public funds.

Adoption: coming to the UK for adoption
Entry clearance for the Adoption: coming to the UK
for adoption route
Validity requirements for the Adoption: coming to
the UK for adoption route
AD 37.1. A child applying for entry clearance or
permission to stay on the Adoption: coming to the UK
for adoption route must apply online on the gov.uk
website on the specified form: ‘Non-British adopted child
or child coming to the UK for adoption of a parent or
parents who are British citizens or settled in the UK’.
AD 37.2. An application for entry clearance on the
Adoption: coming to the UK for adoption route must
meet all of the following requirements:
(a) any fee and Immigration Health Charge must
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-adoption

Page 17 of 23

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Adoption - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:03 pm

have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other document which satisfactorily establishes their
identity and nationality.
AD 37.3. An application which does not meet all the
requirements for the Adoption: coming to the UK for
adoption route may be rejected as invalid and not
considered.
Suitability requirement for the Adoption: coming to
the UK for adoption route
AD 38.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
Eligibility requirements for the Adoption: coming to
the UK for adoption route
Entry requirements for the Adoption: coming to the
UK for adoption route
AD 39.1. A child seeking to come to the UK under the
Adoption: coming to the UK for adoption route must
apply for and obtain entry clearance on the Adoption:
coming to the UK for adoption route before they arrive in
the UK.
AD 39.2. A child applying for entry clearance under the
Adoption: coming to the UK for adoption must, if
Appendix Tuberculosis of these rules applies, provide a
valid medical certificate confirming they have undergone
screening for active pulmonary tuberculosis and that this
tuberculosis is not present in them.
Dependent child requirements for the Adoption:
coming to the UK for adoption route
AD 40.1. The applicant must meet the following
requirements for a dependent child in Appendix
Children:
(a) age requirement; and
(b) independent life requirement; and
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-adoption

Page 18 of 23

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Adoption - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:03 pm

(c) care requirement.
Adoption requirements for the Adoption: coming to
the UK for adoption route
AD 41.1. The applicant must:
(a) be coming to the UK for adoption by an adoptive
parent(s), in accordance with the laws relating to
adoption in the UK; and
(b) demonstrate that the adoption is not one of
convenience arranged to facilitate the applicant’s
admission to the UK; and
(c) demonstrate they will have the same rights and
obligations as any other child of the adoptive
parent(s)’s family; and
(d) be being adopted due to the inability of the
applicant’s birth parent(s) or current carer(s) (or
those looking after the applicant immediately before
they were physically transferred to the care of their
adoptive parent(s)) to care for the applicant and
there has been a genuine transfer of parental
responsibility to the adoptive parent(s).
AD 41.2. The applicant must provide evidence from the
relevant Central Authority (see AD 16.4) to confirm a
Certificate of Eligibility has been issued if the adoption
engages the requirements in:
(a) section 83 of the Adoption and Children Act
2002; or
(b) articles 58ZA and 58ZB of the Adoption
(Northern Ireland) order 1987; or
(c) section 58 of Adoption and Children (Scotland)
Act 2007.
Financial requirements for the Adoption: coming to
the UK for adoption route
AD 42.1. The applicant must show that they will be
adequately maintained in the UK by the adoptive
parent(s), without access to public funds, unless AD
42.2. applies.
AD 42.2. Where an adoptive parent of the applicant has,
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-adoption

Page 19 of 23

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Adoption - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:03 pm

or is applying for (and is granted), permission on a route
to settlement, the applicant must meet the financial
requirement as a dependent under that route.
AD 42.3. The adoptive parent(s) must provide evidence
of income or cash savings sufficient to show they can
meet the financial requirements and:
(a) evidence from income (other than selfemployment) or savings must cover the 6-month
period immediately before the date of application; or
(b) where the sponsor is receiving maternity,
paternity, adoption or sick pay, their income from
salaried employment can be shown for either the 6
months immediately before the date of application or
the start date of the maternity, paternity, adoption or
sick leave; or
(c) where the income is from self-employment it
must be shown for the last full financial year before
the date of application, with additional evidence of
ongoing self-employment as in paragraphs 7 or 9
(as relevant) of Appendix FM-SE; or
(d) where there is non-employment income it must
be shown to have been received in the 12 months
before the date of application except where specified
in paragraph 10 of Appendix FM-SE; or
(e) where property has been sold and the money
received has been converted into cash savings the
requirements in paragraph 11A(d) of Appendix FMSE must be met.
AD 42.4. The applicant must show they meet the
financial requirements as set out in Appendix FM-SE.
Accommodation requirement for the Adoption:
coming to the UK for adoption route
AD 43.1. The applicant’s accommodation in the UK
must not be overcrowded or contravene public health
regulations.
Adoptive parent’s immigration status requirements
for the Adoption: coming to the UK for adoption
route
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-adoption

Page 20 of 23

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Adoption - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:03 pm

AD 44.1. The applicant must be accompanying their
adoptive parent(s) and one of the following must apply:
(a) both adoptive parents are British Citizens, are
settled in the UK, or live in the UK and have a right
to stay without restriction; or
(b) the adoptive parent has sole responsibility for the
applicant and is a British Citizen, is settled in the UK,
or lives in the UK and has a right to stay without
restriction; or
(c) one adoptive parent is a British Citizen, or is
settled in the UK, or lives in the UK and has a right
to stay without restriction and the other adoptive
parent has, or is applying for (and is granted), entry
clearance or permission to stay on a route to
settlement; or
(d) the adoptive parent has sole parental
responsibility, and is applying for (and is granted),
entry clearance or permission on a route to
settlement; or
(e) one adoptive parent is a British Citizen, is settled
in the UK, or lives in the UK and has a right to stay
without restriction and the decision maker is satisfied
there are serious and compelling reasons to grant
the applicant entry clearance; or
(f) one adoptive parent has, or is applying for (and is
granted), entry clearance or permission to stay on a
route to settlement and the decision maker is
satisfied there are serious and compelling reasons
to grant the applicant entry clearance.
Eligibility under Article 8 of the Human Rights
Convention for the Adoption: coming to the UK for
adoption route
AD 45.1. If the applicant meets the Requirements for
Adoption, but does not meet the suitability or other
eligibility requirements (subject to AD 45.2.), the
decision maker must be satisfied that refusal of the
application would breach Article 8 of the Human Rights
Convention, because it would result in unjustifiably
harsh consequences for the applicant or their adoptive
family.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-adoption

Page 21 of 23

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Adoption - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:03 pm

AD 45.2. Where AD 45.1. applies and the applicant falls
for refusal under SUI 2.1, SUI 2.3, SUI 3.1, SUI 4.1, and
SUI 5.1. of Part Suitability, the application on the
Adoption: coming to the UK for adoption route, must be
refused.
Decision on an application for the Adoption: coming
to the UK for adoption route
AD 46.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that the
validity, suitability and the relevant eligibility
requirements are met, or the applicant meets the
eligibility requirements at AD 41.1. to AD 41.2. and AD
45.1. (unless paragraph AD 45.2 applies) the applicant
will be granted permission to stay on the Adoption:
coming to the UK for adoption route, otherwise the
application will be refused.
Period of grant for the Adoption: coming to the UK
for adoption route
AD 47.1. An applicant applying for entry clearance to
come to the UK for adoption will be granted permission
for 24 months.
Conditions of grant for the Adoption: coming to the
UK for adoption route
AD 48.1. The grant will be subject to the following
conditions:
(a) work is permitted; and
(b) study is permitted; and
(c) no access to public funds.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-adoption

Page 22 of 23

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Adoption - Guidance - GOV.UK

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-adoption

07/05/2026, 12:03 pm

© Crown copyright

Page 23 of 23

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Adult Dependent Relative - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:00 pm

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix Adult
Dependent Relative
The Adult Dependent Relative route is for a
person aged 18 or over who is sponsored
by a relative in the UK (who must be a
British Citizen, settled in the UK, have
protection status or be a specified EEA
national who has permission under
Appendix EU) and where the sponsor is
able to maintain, accommodate and care
for the applicant without reliance on public
funds.
The applicant must require long-term personal care to
perform everyday tasks due to age, illness or disability
and that care must be either not available or not
affordable in the country where the applicant is living.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-adult-dependent-relative

Page 1 of 13

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Adult Dependent Relative - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:00 pm

The applicant must apply for and obtain entry clearance
as an Adult Dependent Relative before their arrival in
the UK.
The partner of an Adult Dependent Relative may also
apply for entry clearance as an Adult Dependent
Relative if they are the partner of either the parent or
grandparent of the sponsor who is applying at the same
time.
Where a couple, who are both the parents or
grandparents of the sponsor, are applying as Adult
Dependent Relatives only one of them needs to require
long-term personal care.
An Adult Dependent Relative is granted settlement if
their sponsor is settled in the UK or is a British Citizen.
In other cases, the Adult Dependent Relative is granted
temporary permission which expires on the same date
as their sponsor’s temporary permission and once in the
UK they can apply for settlement or further permission
to stay in line with their sponsor’s permission.
There is a separate route for an Adult Dependent
Relative of a BN(O) Status Holder under Appendix Hong
Kong British National (Overseas).

Validity requirements for an Adult
Dependent Relative
ADR 1.1. A person applying for entry clearance or
permission to stay as an Adult Dependent Relative must
apply online on the gov.uk website on the specified form
as follows:
(a) for applicants outside the UK, form “Join or
accompany a family member”; or
(b) for applicants in the UK, form “Further leave to
remain – Human Rights.
ADR 1.2. An application for entry clearance or
permission to stay as an Adult Dependent Relative must
meet all the following requirements:
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-adult-dependent-relative

Page 2 of 13

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Adult Dependent Relative - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:00 pm

(a) any fee and Immigration Health Charge must
have been paid (unless the applicant has been
granted a fee waiver in whole or part); and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other document which satisfactorily establishes their
identity and nationality; and
(d) the applicant and their sponsor must both be
aged 18 or over at the date of application.
ADR 1.3. If applying for permission to stay, the applicant
must be in the UK on the date of application.
ADR 1.3A. If applying for permission to stay, the
applicant must have, or have last been granted, entry
clearance or permission to stay as an Adult Dependent
Relative.
ADR 1.4. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for the Adult Dependent Relative
route may be rejected as invalid and not considered.

Suitability requirements for an Adult
Dependent Relative
ADR 2.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
ADR 2.2. If applying for permission to stay, the applicant
must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.

Eligibility requirements for an Adult
Dependent Relative
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-adult-dependent-relative

Page 3 of 13

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Adult Dependent Relative - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:00 pm

Entry requirements for an Adult Dependent Relative
ADR 3.1. A person seeking to come to the UK as an
Adult Dependent Relative must apply for and obtain
entry clearance as an Adult Dependent Relative before
they arrive in the UK.
ADR 3.2. A person applying for entry clearance as an
Adult Dependent Relative must, if Appendix
Tuberculosis applies, provide a valid medical certificate
confirming that they have undergone screening for
active pulmonary tuberculosis and that this tuberculosis
is not present in them.
Relationship requirements for an Adult Dependent
Relative
ADR 4.1. An applicant applying for entry clearance or
permission to stay as an Adult Dependent Relative must
be one of the following:
(a) the parent; or
(b) the grandparent; or
(c) the son or daughter; or
(d) the brother or sister,
of a person in the UK (“the sponsor”).
ADR 4.2. The sponsor of the applicant must be one of
the following:
(a) a British Citizen; or
(b) settled in the UK; or
(c) in the UK with protection status; or
(d) an EEA national with limited leave to enter or
remain granted under paragraph EU3 of Appendix
EU on the basis of meeting condition 1(a)(i) in
paragraph EU14 of that Appendix.
ADR 4.3. Where the applicant is applying for permission
to stay, the sponsor must be the same person who
sponsored the applicant when they were last granted
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-adult-dependent-relative

Page 4 of 13

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Adult Dependent Relative - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:00 pm

entry clearance or permission as an Adult Dependent
Relative.
Dependency requirements for an Adult Dependent
Relative
ADR 5.1. The applicant, or if the applicant is applying as
a parent or grandparent, the applicant’s partner, must as
a result of age, illness or disability require long term
personal care to perform everyday tasks.
ADR 5.2. Where the application is for entry clearance,
the applicant, or if the applicant is applying as a parent
or grandparent, the applicant’s partner, must be unable
to obtain the required level of care in the country where
they are living, even with the financial help of the
sponsor because either:
(a) the care is not available and there is no person in
that country who can reasonably provide it: or
(b) the care is not affordable.
ADR 5.3. DELETED
Partner requirement on the Adult Dependent
Relative route
ADR 5.3A.1. If the applicant is the sponsor’s parent or
grandparent they must not be in a subsisting
relationship with a partner, unless that partner is
applying for entry clearance or permission to stay as an
Adult Dependent Relative at the same time.
Financial requirement for an Adult Dependent
Relative
ADR 6.1. The sponsor must be able to provide
adequate maintenance, accommodation and care for
the applicant in the UK without access to public funds.
ADR. 6.2. The sponsor must provide evidence of
income or cash savings sufficient to show they can meet
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-adult-dependent-relative

Page 5 of 13

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Adult Dependent Relative - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:00 pm

the financial requirement and:
(a) evidence from income (other than selfemployment) or savings must cover the 6 month
period immediately before the date of application; or
(b) where the sponsor is receiving maternity,
paternity, adoption or sick pay, their income from
salaried employment can be shown for either the 6
months immediately before the date of application or
the start date of the maternity, paternity, adoption or
sick leave; or
(c) where the income is from self-employment it
must be shown for the last full financial year before
the date of application, with additional evidence of
ongoing self-employment as in paragraphs 7 or 9
(as relevant) of Appendix FM-SE; or
(d) where there is non-employment income it must
be shown to have been received in the 12 months
before the date of application except where specified
in paragraph 10 of Appendix FM-SE; or
(e) where property has been sold and the money
received has been converted into cash savings the
requirements in paragraph 11A(d) of Appendix FMSE must be met.
ADR 6.3. The income or cash savings must be
evidenced as specified in paragraphs 1, 12A and 12B of
Appendix FM-SE.
ADR 6.4. The sponsor must provide a signed
maintenance undertaking confirming that the applicant
will not have access to public funds, and that the
sponsor will be responsible for the maintenance,
accommodation and care of the applicant for either:
(a) a period of 5 years from the date the applicant
arrives in the UK if the applicant is to be granted
settlement; or
(b) the duration of the period of permission to be
granted if the applicant is being granted temporary
permission to stay.
ADR 6.5. If the applicant receives public funds during
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-adult-dependent-relative

Page 6 of 13

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Adult Dependent Relative - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:00 pm

the period covered by the maintenance undertaking
(see ADR 6.4.) the UK Government may seek to
recover the public funds from the sponsor who gave the
undertaking.

Eligibility under Article 8 ECHR for an
Adult Dependent Relative
ADR 7.1. If the applicant does not meet all the suitability
requirements (subject to ADR 7.2) or does not meet all
of the eligibility requirements in ADR 3.1. to ADR 6.4.,
but the decision maker is satisfied that refusal of the
application would breach Article 8 of the Human Rights
Convention, because it would result in unjustifiably
harsh consequences for the applicant or their family, the
applicant will meet the Article 8 ECHR eligibility
requirement.
ADR 7.2. Where ADR 7.1. applies and the applicant
falls for refusal on suitability grounds under SUI 2.1.,
SUI 2.3., SUI 3.1., SUI 4.1., SUI 5.1. of Part Suitability,
the application as an Adult Dependent Relative must be
refused.

Decision on an application as an Adult
Dependent Relative
ADR 8.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all the
suitability and the relevant eligibility requirements are
met, unless paragraph ADR 7.2. applies, the application
will be granted as an Adult Dependent Relative;
otherwise, the application will be refused.

Period of grant for an Adult Dependent
Relative
ADR 9.1. An applicant applying for entry clearance will,
if the sponsor is a British Citizen or settled in the UK, be
granted settlement.
ADR 9.2. An applicant applying for entry clearance or
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-adult-dependent-relative

Page 7 of 13

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Adult Dependent Relative - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:00 pm

permission to stay where an applicant’s sponsor has
temporary permission to stay in the UK will be granted
temporary permission which expires on the same date
as their sponsor’s temporary permission.
ADR 9.3 Where an applicant is applying for permission
to stay and, their sponsor is a British Citizen or settled in
the UK, the applicant will be granted permission for 30
months.

Conditions of grant for an Adult
Dependent Relative
ADR 9.4. If the applicant is granted temporary
permission, it will be subject to the following conditions:
(a) no access to public funds; and
(b) work permitted (including self-employment and
voluntary work); and
(c) study permitted, subject to the ATAS condition in
Appendix ATAS.

Settlement as an Adult Dependent
Relative for those with temporary
permission to stay as an Adult
Dependent Relative
Validity requirements for settlement as an Adult
Dependent Relative for those with permission to
stay as an Adult Dependent Relative
ADR 10.1. A person in the UK applying for settlement as
an Adult Dependent Relative must apply online on the
gov.uk website on the specified form “Settle in the UK in
various immigration categories: form SET(O)”.
ADR 10.2. The applicant must be in the UK on the date
of application.
ADR 10.2A. The applicant must have, or have
previously been granted, permission as an Adult
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-adult-dependent-relative

Page 8 of 13

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Adult Dependent Relative - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:00 pm

Dependent Relative.
ADR 10.3. An application for settlement as an Adult
Dependent Relative must meet all the following
requirements:
(a) any fee must have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other document which satisfactorily establishes their
identity and nationality.
ADR 10.4. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for settlement as an Adult
Dependent Relative may be rejected as invalid and not
considered.
Suitability requirements for settlement as an Adult
Dependent Relative for those with permission to
stay as an Adult Dependent Relative
ADR 11.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
ADR 11.2. The applicant must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.
ADR 11.3. DELETED.
ADR 11.4. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
SUI 5.3. of Part Suitability, unless the applicant has
completed a qualifying period of 10 years with
permission and the applicant has spent at least 5 years
with such permission since the end of their sentence.
ADR 11.5. Where any of the following have occurred,
the applicant must be refused settlement unless the
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-adult-dependent-relative

Page 9 of 13

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Adult Dependent Relative - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:00 pm

applicant has completed a continuous qualifying period
of 10 years with permission, and has completed 5 years
continuous residence with such permission after the
date of the first grant of permission after the suitability
ground came to the attention of the decision maker:
(a) involvement in a sham marriage or civil
partnership (SUI 8.1. of Part Suitability); or
(b) use of false documents or information or
deception (SUI 9.1. and SUI 10.1. of Part Suitability);
or
(c) litigation debt owed to the Home Office, unless
the debt has been paid (SUI 17.1. of Part Suitability);
or
(d) debt to the NHS, unless the debt has been paid,
or the total value of outstanding charges is under
£500 (SUI 16.1. of Part Suitability); or
(e) the applicant has breached the conditions of their
permission (SUI 11.1. of Part Suitability).
Eligibility requirements for settlement as an Adult
Dependent Relative for those with permission to
stay as an Adult Dependent Relative
Sponsorship requirement for settlement as an Adult
Dependent Relative for those with permission to
stay as an Adult Dependent Relative
ADR 12.1. The applicant’s sponsor must be the same
sponsor as when the applicant was last granted
permission as an Adult Dependent Relative. The
sponsor must be in the UK and must be one of the
following:
(a) a British Citizen; or
(b) settled; or
(c) have protection status and have, at the same
time as the applicant, applied for settlement which is
granted; or
(d) an EEA national in the UK with limited leave to
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-adult-dependent-relative

Page 10 of 13

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Adult Dependent Relative - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:00 pm

enter or remain granted under paragraph EU3 of
Appendix EU to these rules on the basis of meeting
condition 1 in paragraph EU14 of that Appendix and
have, at the same time as the applicant, applied for
settlement which is granted.
Financial requirement for settlement as an Adult
Dependent Relative for those with permission to
stay as an Adult Dependent Relative
ADR 13.1. The sponsor must be able to provide
adequate maintenance, accommodation and care for
the applicant in the UK without reliance on public funds.
ADR 13.2. The sponsor must provide evidence of
income or cash savings sufficient to show they can meet
the financial requirement and:
(a) evidence of income (other than self-employment)
or savings must cover the 6 month period
immediately before the date of application; or
(b) where the sponsor is receiving maternity,
paternity, adoption or sick pay, their income from
salaried employment can be shown for either the 6
months immediately before the date of application or
the start date of the maternity, paternity, adoption or
sick leave; or
(c) where the income is from self-employment it
must be shown for the last full financial year before
the date of application, with additional evidence of
ongoing employment as in paragraphs 7 or 9 (as
relevant) of Appendix FM-SE; or
(d) where there is non-employment income it must
be shown to have been received in the 12 months
before the date of application except where specified
in paragraph 10 of Appendix FM-SE; or
(e) where property has been sold and the money
received has been converted into cash savings the
requirements in paragraph 11A(d) of Appendix FMSE must be met.
ADR 13.3. The income or cash savings must be
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-adult-dependent-relative

Page 11 of 13

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Adult Dependent Relative - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:00 pm

evidenced as specified in paragraphs 1, 12A and 12B of
Appendix FM-SE.
ADR 13.4. The sponsor must provide a signed
maintenance undertaking confirming that the applicant
will not have access to public funds, and that the
sponsor will be responsible for the maintenance,
accommodation and care of the applicant for a period of
5 years from the date of grant under ADR 14.1. or the
duration of the period of permission to be granted under
ADR 14.4.
ADR 13.5. If the applicant receives public funds during
the periods set out in ADR 13.4., the UK Government
may seek to recover public funds from the sponsor who
gave the undertaking.
Decision on an application for settlement as an
Adult Dependent Relative for those with permission
to stay as an Adult Dependent Relative
ADR 14.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all the
suitability and eligibility requirements for settlement as
an Adult Dependent Relative are met, the applicant will
be granted settlement.
ADR 14.2. If the requirements for settlement are not
met, but the decision maker believes the applicant is
likely to meet all the suitability and eligibility
requirements for permission to stay as an Adult
Dependent Relative, the application will be varied by the
Secretary of State to an application for temporary
permission to stay as an Adult Dependent Relative, and
where this happens:
(a) no additional application fee for the application
for permission to stay will be required and the
settlement application fee will not be refunded; and
(b) the Secretary of State will write to the applicant
informing them of this variation and will request the
applicant pay the required Immigration Health
Charge.
ADR 14.3. If the applicant does not pay the requested
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-adult-dependent-relative

Page 12 of 13

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Adult Dependent Relative - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:00 pm

Immigration Health Charge, the application for
permission to stay will be rejected as invalid and the
applicant will not be refunded the fee paid for the
settlement application.
ADR 14.4. Where an application is varied and the
applicant meets the requirements for permission to stay
the applicant will be granted permission to stay which
expires on the same date as their sponsor’s permission,
or, if the sponsor is a British Citizen or settled in the UK,
the applicant will be granted permission for 30 months.
ADR 14.5. If the applicant is granted permission to stay,
it will be subject to the following conditions:
(a) no access to public funds; and
(b) work allowed (including self-employment and
voluntary work); and
(c) study allowed subject to the ATAS requirement in
Appendix ATAS.
ADR 14.6. If the decision maker is not satisfied that the
applicant meets all the suitability and relevant eligibility
requirements for settlement or permission to stay the
application for settlement will be refused.

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-adult-dependent-relative

© Crown copyright
Page 13 of 13

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Afghan Relocation and Assistance Policy (ARAP) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:57 am

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix Afghan
Relocation and Assistance Policy (ARAP)
This route is for Afghan citizens and their
dependent family members to relocate to,
or settle in, the UK where the Ministry of
Defence has decided they meet the
requirements for relocation to the UK as an
eligible Afghan citizen under the ARAP
(“the ARAP eligibility decision”).
An eligible Afghan citizen may include a partner,
dependent children and additional family members who
are eligible under the ARAP in their application.
There is a two-stage application process. An application
must first be made, by the applicant, to the Ministry of
Defence, who will decide if the applicant is an eligible
Afghan citizen or an eligible dependant. If they are
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-afghan-relocation-and-assistance-policy-arap

Page 1 of 13

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Afghan Relocation and Assistance Policy (ARAP) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:57 am

eligible for relocation to the UK, the second stage is that
the Ministry of Defence will on behalf of the applicant,
make an application to the Home Office for entry
clearance (if they are outside the UK) or settlement (if
they are in the UK).
Where an applicant satisfies the requirements for entry
clearance or settlement under Appendix ARAP, they will
be granted settlement in the UK.
Applications by an Afghan citizen must have been
submitted to the Ministry of Defence before 15:00 BST
on 01 July 2025.

Requirements for entry clearance or
settlement in the UK as an eligible
Afghan citizen under the ARAP
Validity requirements for an application
for entry clearance or settlement for an
eligible Afghan citizen
ARAP 1.1. An application for entry clearance or
settlement as an eligible Afghan citizen must meet the
following validity requirements:
(a) the Ministry of Defence must have decided that
the applicant meets the eligibility requirements in
ARAP 3.1 to ARAP 3.6. and that ARAP 3.7. does not
apply (the ARAP eligibility decision); and
(b) the Ministry of Defence must have made an
application for entry clearance or settlement on the
applicant’s behalf no more than 12 months after the
ARAP eligibility decision was made; and
(c) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(d) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other evidence which satisfactorily establishes their
identity and nationality; and
(e) the applicant must be a citizen of Afghanistan;
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-afghan-relocation-and-assistance-policy-arap

Page 2 of 13

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Afghan Relocation and Assistance Policy (ARAP) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:57 am

and
(f) the applicant must be aged 18 or over on the date
of application.
ARAP 1.2. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for ARAP may be rejected as
invalid and not considered.

Suitability requirements for an
application for entry clearance or
settlement as an eligible Afghan citizen
ARAP 2.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.

Eligibility requirements for an eligible
Afghan citizen
ARAP 3.1. To be an eligible Afghan citizen the applicant
must have applied to, and received from, the Ministry of
Defence a decision that the requirements under ARAP
3.2. to ARAP 3.6. are met and that ARAP 3.7. does not
apply (“the ARAP eligibility decision”).
ARAP 3.2. An eligible Afghan citizen is a person who:
(a) is an Afghan citizen; and
(b) is aged 18 years or over; and
(c) meets the eligibility requirements in at least one
of ARAP 3.3 to ARAP 3.6; and
(d) ARAP 3.7. must not apply.
ARAP 3.3. A person meets the ARAP eligibility
requirement if:
(a) they submit an application to the Ministry of
Defence on or after 1 April 2021 and before 15:00
BST on 01 July 2025; and
(b) at least one of the following eligibility
requirements applies:
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-afghan-relocation-and-assistance-policy-arap

Page 3 of 13

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Afghan Relocation and Assistance Policy (ARAP) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:57 am

(i) ARAP 3.4. (high and imminent risk of threat to
life);
(ii) ARAP 3.5. (former employees eligible for
relocation); and
(iii) ARAP 3.6. (special cases).
ARAP 3.4. A person meets the eligibility requirement if:
(a) they were at any time on or after 1 October 2001
directly employed in Afghanistan by a UK
Government department; and
(b) because of that employment, there is a high and
imminent risk of a threat to their life.
ARAP 3.5. A person meets the eligibility requirements if:
(a) at any time on or after 1 October 2001, the
person:
(i) was directly employed in Afghanistan by a UK
Government department; or
(ii) provided linguistic services to or for the
benefit of members of the UK’s armed forces in
Afghanistan under contract to a UK Government
department (whether as, or on behalf of, a party
to the contract); and
(b) the nature of the role in which the person was
employed was such that the UK’s operations in
Afghanistan would have been materially less
efficient or materially less successful if a role or roles
of that nature had not been performed; and
(c) the nature of the role exposed the person to
being publicly recognised as having performed that
role; and
(d) as a result of that public recognition, the person’s
safety is at risk.
ARAP 3.6. A person meets the eligibility requirement if
conditions 1 and 2 and one or both of conditions 3 and 4
applies:
(a) Condition 1 is that at any time on or after 1
October 2001, the person:
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-afghan-relocation-and-assistance-policy-arap

Page 4 of 13

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Afghan Relocation and Assistance Policy (ARAP) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:57 am

(i) was directly employed in Afghanistan by a UK
Government department; or
(ii) provided goods or services in Afghanistan
under contract to a UK Government department
(whether as, or on behalf of, a party to the
contract); or
(iii)worked in Afghanistan alongside a UK
Government department, in partnership with or
closely supporting and assisting that department.
(b) Condition 2 is that the person, in the course of
the employment or work or the provision of those
services under Condition 1, made a substantive and
positive contribution towards the achievement of one
or more of the following:
(i) the UK Government’s military objectives with
respect to Afghanistan; or
(ii) the UK Government’s national security
objectives with respect to Afghanistan (and for
these purposes, the UK Government’s national
security objectives include counter-terrorism,
counter-narcotics and anti-corruption objectives).
(c) Condition 3 is that because of the person’s
employment or work or those services under
Condition 1, the person:
(i) is or was at an elevated risk of targeted
attacks; and
(ii) is or was at high risk of death or serious
injury.
(d) Condition 4 is that the person holds information,
the disclosure of which would give rise to or
aggravate a specific threat to a UK Government
department or its interests.
ARAP 3.7. A person does not meet the ARAP eligibility
requirements, if either of the following apply:
(a) the Ministry of Defence has withdrawn its
eligibility decision; or
(b) the person was directly employed by, or
contracted to, a UK Government department or unit
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-afghan-relocation-and-assistance-policy-arap

Page 5 of 13

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Afghan Relocation and Assistance Policy (ARAP) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:57 am

and was dismissed from their job (except in
circumstances where the Secretary of State
considers that the person was dismissed for a minor
reason).

Requirement for a Ministry of Defence
decision on eligibility as an eligible
Afghan citizen
ARAP 4.1. If the Ministry of Defence decision maker is
satisfied the ARAP eligibility requirements are met, the
Ministry of Defence will make an application for entry
clearance or settlement on behalf of the applicant
(otherwise the application to the Ministry of Defence will
be refused).

Entry requirements for an eligible
Afghan citizen
ARAP 5.1. A person seeking to come to the UK as an
eligible Afghan citizen must have obtained entry
clearance under the ARAP before they arrive in the UK.
ARAP 5.2. A person in the UK, applying for settlement
as an eligible Afghan citizen must be in the UK on the
date of application.
ARAP 5.3. A person applying for entry clearance as an
eligible Afghan citizen must, if Appendix Tuberculosis
applies, provide a valid medical certificate confirming
that they have undergone screening for active
pulmonary tuberculosis and that this tuberculosis is not
present in them.

Decision on an application for entry
clearance or settlement as an eligible
Afghan citizen
ARAP 6.1. If the Home Office decision maker is satisfied
that the eligibility and suitability requirements for entry
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-afghan-relocation-and-assistance-policy-arap

Page 6 of 13

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Afghan Relocation and Assistance Policy (ARAP) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:57 am

clearance or settlement for an eligible Afghan citizen are
met, the application will be granted, otherwise the
application will be refused.
ARAP 6.2. An application for entry clearance or
settlement as an eligible Afghan citizen will only be
considered under this Appendix and will not be
considered as an application for entry clearance,
permission to stay or settlement on any other basis,
including an application for leave outside of the Rules.

Period of grant for an eligible Afghan
citizen
ARAP 7.1. Where the applicant is outside the UK and
the requirements for entry clearance are met, they will
be granted entry clearance which will have effect on
arrival in the UK as indefinite permission to enter
(settlement).
ARAP 7.2. Where the applicant is in the UK and the
requirements for settlement are met, they will be
granted indefinite permission to stay (settlement).

Family members of an eligible Afghan
citizen
Validity requirements for entry clearance
or settlement as a family member of an
eligible Afghan citizen
ARAP 8.1. An application for entry clearance or
settlement as the family member of an eligible Afghan
citizen must meet the following validity requirements:
(a) the Ministry of Defence must have decided that
the applicant meets the relevant ARAP eligibility
requirements in ARAP 10.1 to ARAP 13.4 (the
ARAP dependent eligibility decision); and
(b) an application must have been made by the
Ministry of Defence on the applicant’s behalf for
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-afghan-relocation-and-assistance-policy-arap

Page 7 of 13

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Afghan Relocation and Assistance Policy (ARAP) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:57 am

entry clearance or settlement no more than 12
months after an eligibility decision; and
(c) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(d) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other evidence which satisfactorily establishes their
identity and nationality; and
(e) the applicant must be a partner, child or eligible
family member of a person who has been granted
entry clearance or settlement as an eligible Afghan
citizen, or of a person who is applying as an eligible
Afghan citizen or their partner at the same time as
the applicant.
ARAP 8.2. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for ARAP is invalid may be
rejected as invalid and not considered.

Suitability requirements for entry
clearance or settlement as a family
member of an eligible Afghan citizen
ARAP 9.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.

Requirement for Ministry of Defence
decision on eligibility as a family
member of an eligible Afghan citizen
(“the ARAP family member eligibility
decision”)
ARAP 10.1. To be eligible as a family member of an
eligible Afghan citizen the family member must have
been included in the Afghan citizen’s eligibility
application to the Ministry of Defence.
ARAP 10.2. To be eligible as a family member of an
eligible Afghan citizen, the Ministry of Defence must
have decided the relevant eligibility requirements under
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-afghan-relocation-and-assistance-policy-arap

Page 8 of 13

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Afghan Relocation and Assistance Policy (ARAP) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:57 am

ARAP 11.1 to ARAP 13.4 are met.

Relationship requirements for a partner
of an eligible Afghan citizen
ARAP 11.1. A person applying as a dependent partner
of an eligible Afghan citizen must meet the requirements
set out in Appendix Relationship with Partner.
ARAP 11.2. The applicant must be the dependent
partner of an eligible Afghan citizen who the Ministry of
Defence has decided is eligible for relocation to the UK
under the ARAP.
ARAP 11.3. The applicant must have been the
dependent partner of a person (P) on the date when the
Ministry of Defence decided that P was an eligible
Afghan citizen under the ARAP.
ARAP 11.4. If the relevant Afghan citizen has more than
one partner, only one partner can apply for entry
clearance or settlement in the UK under these Rules.

Relationship requirements for a child of
an eligible Afghan citizen
ARAP 12.1. The applicant must be under 18 on the date
of application.
ARAP 12.2. The applicant must be the dependent child
of an eligible Afghan citizen or their partner.
ARAP 12.3. The applicant must not be living an
independent life.
ARAP 12.4. The applicant must be applying at the same
time as both of their parents are applying under ARAP
unless:
(a) the parent applying is the sole surviving parent;
or
(b) the parent applying has sole responsibility for the
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-afghan-relocation-and-assistance-policy-arap

Page 9 of 13

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Afghan Relocation and Assistance Policy (ARAP) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:57 am

child’s upbringing; or
(c) one parent is a British citizen or a person who
has a right to enter or stay in the UK without
restriction; and is or will be ordinarily resident in the
UK; or
(d) the decision maker is satisfied that there are
serious and compelling reasons to grant the
application.

Relationship requirement for an
additional family member an eligible
Afghan citizen
ARAP 13.1. The applicant must be an additional family
member of an eligible Afghan citizen or their partner.
ARAP 13.2. The additional family member cannot be an
additional partner where one partner has applied for
entry clearance or settlement under these Rules.
ARAP 13.3. The additional family member must meet at
least one of the following requirements:
(a) as a result of the eligible Afghan citizen’s work
for or with a UK Government department, the
applicant must be at an elevated risk of targeted
attacks, specific threats or intimidation; putting them
at a high risk of death or serious injury; or
(b) the applicant must face specific vulnerabilities
which have led to an exceptional level of family
dependence, and would be unable, even with the
practical and financial help of the eligible Afghan
citizen or their partner, to obtain the required level of
care or protection outside the UK either because it is
not available, and there is no other person who can
reasonably provide it, or because it is not affordable.
ARAP 13.4. Where the additional family member is a
child:
(a) the eligible Afghan citizen or their partner must
be a legal guardian of the child; or
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-afghan-relocation-and-assistance-policy-arap

Page 10 of 13

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Afghan Relocation and Assistance Policy (ARAP) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:57 am

(b) one parent is a British citizen or a person who
has a right to enter or stay in the UK without
restriction; and is or will be ordinarily resident in the
UK; or
(c) the decision maker is satisfied that there are
serious and compelling reasons to grant the
applicant with the eligible Afghan citizen or their
partner.

Requirement for a Ministry of Defence
ARAP dependent eligibility decision
ARAP 14.1. If the Ministry of Defence decision maker is
satisfied all the relevant eligibility requirements for a
dependant of an eligible Afghan citizen are met, the
Ministry of Defence will submit an application for entry
clearance or settlement on the applicant’s behalf.

Entry requirements for a family member
of an eligible Afghan citizen
ARAP 15.1. A person seeking to come to the UK as the
family member of an eligible Afghan citizen under the
ARAP must have obtained entry clearance before they
arrive in the UK.
ARAP 15.2. A person in the UK, applying for settlement
as the family member of an eligible Afghan citizen, must
be in the UK on the date of application.
ARAP 15.3. A person applying for entry clearance as
the family member of an eligible Afghan citizen must, if
Appendix Tuberculosis applies, provide a valid medical
certificate confirming that they have undergone
screening for active pulmonary tuberculosis and that this
tuberculosis is not present in them.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-afghan-relocation-and-assistance-policy-arap

Page 11 of 13

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Afghan Relocation and Assistance Policy (ARAP) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:57 am

Decision on an application for entry
clearance or settlement as a family
member of an eligible Afghan citizen
ARAP 16.1. If the Home Office decision maker is
satisfied that all the suitability and eligibility
requirements for a family member of an eligible Afghan
citizen under the ARAP are met, the application will be
granted, otherwise the application will be refused.
ARAP16.2. An application for entry clearance or
settlement under ARAP will only be considered under
this Appendix and will not be considered as an
application for entry clearance, permission to stay or
settlement on any other basis, including an application
for leave outside the Rules.

Period of grant for a family member of
an eligible Afghan citizen
ARAP 17.1. Where the requirements for entry clearance
as the family member of an eligible Afghan citizen are
met, they will be granted entry clearance, which will
have effect on arrival in the UK as indefinite permission
to enter (settlement).
ARAP 17.2. Where the requirements for settlement as
the family member of an eligible Afghan citizen are met,
they will be granted indefinite permission to stay
(settlement).

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-afghan-relocation-and-assistance-policy-arap

Page 12 of 13

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Afghan Relocation and Assistance Policy (ARAP) - Guidance - GOV.UK

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-afghan-relocation-and-assistance-policy-arap

07/05/2026, 11:57 am

© Crown copyright

Page 13 of 13

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix AR (EU)
Administrative Review for the EU
Settlement Scheme
Appendix AR (EU)

Eligible decisions
AR(EU)A1. An application for administrative review of
an eligible decision made under Appendix EU, Appendix
EU (Family Permit) or Appendix S2 Healthcare Visitor
may only be made in accordance with this Appendix.
Appendix AR does not apply to such applications.
AR(EU)1.1. An applicant may only apply for an
administrative review where an eligible decision has
been made. An eligible decision is a decision to:
(a) Refuse an application under paragraph EU6 of
Appendix EU because the applicant does not meet
the eligibility requirements for indefinite leave to
enter or remain under paragraph EU11, EU11A or

EU12 or for limited leave to enter or remain under
paragraph EU14 or EU14A; or
(b) Grant limited leave to enter or remain under
paragraph EU3 of Appendix EU and not indefinite
leave to enter or remain under paragraph EU2; or
(c) Grant limited leave to enter or remain under
paragraph EU3A of Appendix EU and not indefinite
leave to enter or remain under paragraph EU2A; or
(d) Cancel leave granted under Appendix EU on the
grounds that the person ceases to meet the
requirements of that Appendix for that leave; or
(e) Cancel leave to enter granted by virtue of having
arrived in the UK with an entry clearance that was
granted under Appendix EU (Family Permit) where
since the entry clearance was granted, there has
been a change in circumstances that is, or would
have been, relevant to that person’s eligibility for
that entry clearance, such that their leave to enter
ought to be cancelled; or
(f) Refuse an application under paragraph HV9.1 of
Appendix S2 Healthcare Visitor because the
applicant does not meet the eligibility requirements
for permission to enter or remain as an S2
Healthcare Visitor; or
(g) Cancel permission to enter to a person who
holds entry clearance under Appendix S2
Healthcare Visitor, where, since the entry clearance
was granted, there has been a change in
circumstances which means the person no longer
meets the eligibility requirements for permission to
enter; or
(h) Refuse permission to enter to a non-visa national
seeking to come to the UK as an S2 Healthcare
Visitor for 6 months or less, because they do not
meet the eligibility requirements of Appendix S2
Healthcare Visitor.
AR(EU)1.2. An applicant may not apply for an
administrative review where a decision has been made
to:
(a) Refuse an application under paragraph EU6 of
Appendix EU on suitability grounds as set out in
paragraph EU15 or EU16; or

(aa) Refuse an application under paragraph EU6 of
Appendix EU both:
(i) on suitability grounds as set out in paragraph
EU15 or EU16; and
(ii) because the applicant does not meet the
eligibility requirements for indefinite leave to
enter or remain under paragraph EU11, EU11A
or EU12 or for limited leave to enter or remain
under paragraph EU14 or EU14A; or
(b) Refuse an application under paragraph HV9.1 of
Appendix S2 Healthcare Visitor where the suitability
requirements are not met; or
(c) Refuse permission to enter to a person who
holds entry clearance under Appendix S2
Healthcare Visitor, where, since the entry clearance
was granted, there has been a change in
circumstances which means the person no longer
meets the suitability requirements for permission to
enter.
AR(EU)1.3. An applicant may not apply for an
administrative review where their application has been
rejected as invalid under paragraph EU10(1) of
Appendix EU or paragraph HV1.7. of Appendix S2
Healthcare Visitor.
AR(EU)1.4. An applicant may not apply for an
administrative review of an eligible decision, as defined
in paragraph AR(EU)1.1., where that decision was
made on or after 5 October 2023.

Validity requirements
AR(EU)1.5. A person applying for administrative review
(EU) must apply online on the Administrative Review
form on the gov.uk website.
AR(EU)1.6. An application for administrative review
(EU) must meet all the following requirements:
(a) any fee must have been paid; and
(b) documents specified as mandatory on the online
application form must be submitted in the specified
manner no more than 7 calendar days after the day

on which the online application form is submitted;
and
(c) the application must have been made within the
relevant time period set out in AR(EU)1.7.
AR(EU)1.7. The time limit for making an application for
administrative review (EU) is:
(a) where the applicant is in the UK and not
detained, no more than 28 calendar days after
receipt by the applicant of the notice of the eligible
decision.
(b) where the applicant is in detention in the UK
under the Immigration Acts, no more than 7
calendar days after receipt by the applicant of the
notice of the eligible decision.
(c) where the applicant is overseas, no more than 28
calendar days after receipt by the applicant of notice
of the eligible decision.
AR(EU)1.8. An application for administrative review
(EU) is made on the date which it is submitted.
AR(EU)1.9. An application for administrative review
(EU) which does not meet all the validity requirements
for administrative review must be rejected as invalid and
not considered.
AR(EU)1.10. Where a person has a pending
administrative review under this Appendix, it may be
withdrawn by the applicant. A request to withdraw an
application must be made in writing to the Home Office
at the address provided for that purpose on the visa and
immigration pages of the gov.uk website and in
accordance with the guidance provided at
Administrative Review on the gov.uk website. The
application will be treated as withdrawn on the date
when the request is received.
AR(EU)1.11. An application for administrative review
under this Appendix will be withdrawn if a valid
application is made under Appendix EU, Appendix EU
(Family Permit) or Appendix S2 Healthcare Visitor.
AR(EU)1.12. Where an application for administrative
review of an eligible decision as defined in AR(EU)1.1.

was made before 4 April 2024, the requirements of
Appendix AR (EU) (with the exception of AR(EU)4.1.) in
force on 3 April 2024 will be applied.

Consideration
AR(EU)2.1. The person considering the administrative
review on behalf of the Secretary of State (“the
reviewer”) will decide whether the decision is incorrect
because:
(a) The decision maker failed to apply, or incorrectly
applied, the relevant Immigration Rules;
(b) The decision maker failed to apply, or incorrectly
applied, the published guidance in relation to the
application; or
(c) Information or evidence that was not before the
decision maker has been provided to the reviewer
which shows that the applicant qualifies for:
(i) a grant, or a different grant, of leave under
Appendix EU; or
(ii) permission to enter or stay in the UK under
Appendix S2 Healthcare Visitor.
AR(EU)2.2. Where the reviewer considers that the
decision is incorrect in accordance with paragraph
AR(EU)2.1., the decision will be withdrawn and a new
decision made. Otherwise, the decision will be
maintained.
AR(EU)2.3. The reviewer will consider any information
and evidence submitted with the application for
administrative review, including information and
evidence that was not before the original decisionmaker.
AR(EU)2.4. The reviewer may contact the applicant or
their representative to request further information or
evidence, to be provided within a reasonable timeframe
specified in the request.
AR(EU)2.5. The reviewer will notify the applicant of the
outcome of the administrative review by notice under
Appendix SN.

Applications for administrative review
AR(EU)3.1. An application for administrative review
under this Appendix is decided when:
(a) It is rejected as invalid because it does not meet
the requirements of AR(EU)1.5. to AR(EU)1.8. of
these Rules;
(b) It is withdrawn in accordance with AR(EU)1.10.
or AR(EU)1.11. of these Rules; or
(c) The notice of outcome is served in accordance
with Appendix SN.

Effect of a pending administrative
review on liability for removal
AR(EU)4.1. Where an administrative review under this
Appendix is pending, and the applicant has not left the
UK, or has been granted entry into the UK (which does
not include a person granted immigration bail), the
Home Office will not seek to remove them from the UK.
AR(EU)4.2. For the purposes of paragraph AR(EU)4.1.,
an administrative review is pending where:
(a) An application for administrative review can be
made in accordance with these Rules; or
(b) An application for administrative review has been
made and has not yet been decided.
AR(EU)4.3. However, an administrative review is not
pending where the applicant has waived their right to
apply for an administrative review of an eligible decision
by signing an administrative review waiver form.

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

© Crown copyright

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix ATAS: Academic Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:05 pm

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix ATAS: Academic
Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS)
ATAS seeks to prevent the transfer of
information, knowledge or technology which
could develop, advance or support an
Advanced Conventional Military Technology
(ACMT) and Weapons of Mass Destruction
(WMD) programme or their means of
delivery.
The ATAS requirement means the applicant must obtain
a valid ATAS certificate, issued by the CounterProliferation and Arms Control Centre, and to provide it
with an application on Student, Skilled Worker, ICT,
Global Business Mobility, Scale-up, Temporary Work –
International Agreement and Temporary Work –
Government Authorised Exchange routes to study or
work as a researcher in any of the specified subjects
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-atas-academic-technology-approval-scheme-atas

Page 1 of 9

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix ATAS: Academic Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:05 pm

listed in this Appendix.
The ATAS condition means that someone must obtain a
valid ATAS certificate prior to commencing study or
research in any of the specified subjects or fields of
research.
A person is subject to the ATAS condition if they have
been granted permission which allows study or work
subject to the ATAS condition.
A person is exempt from the ATAS requirement and
ATAS condition if they are a national of one of the
countries listed in this Appendix.

ATAS requirement
ATAS 1.1. An applicant (who is not a national of a
country listed at ATAS 3.1.) requires a valid ATAS
certificate if the course of study for which the
Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies was assigned is
a subject set out at ATAS 4.1. which:
(a) leads to a master’s degree; or
(b) leads to a PhD; or
(c) leads to another postgraduate qualification; or
(d) is a period of study or research which is part of
an overseas postgraduate qualification.
ATAS 1.2. An applicant (who is not a national of a
country listed at ATAS 3.1.) requires a valid ATAS
certificate if they are applying in a work route which
requires a Certificate of Sponsorship, that Certificate of
Sponsorship is issued by a work sponsor that is also a
licensed student sponsor, and the role set out in the
Certificate of Sponsorship:
(a) is in one of the following SOC 2020 occupation
codes:
• 2111 Chemical scientists
• 2112 Biological scientists
• 2113 Biochemists and biomedical scientists
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-atas-academic-technology-approval-scheme-atas

Page 2 of 9

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix ATAS: Academic Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:05 pm

• 2114 Physical scientists
• 2115 Social and humanities scientists
• 2119 Natural and social science professionals
not elsewhere classified
• 2122 Mechanical engineers
• 2123 Electrical engineers
• 2124 Electronics engineers
• 2125 Production and process engineers
• 2126 Aerospace engineers
• 2127 Engineering project managers and project
engineers
• 2129 Engineering professionals not elsewhere
classified
• 2161 Research and development (R&D)
managers
• 2162 Other researchers, unspecified discipline
• 2311 Higher education teaching professionals
• 3111 Laboratory technicians
• 3112 Electrical and electronics technicians
• 3113 Engineering technicians
• 3114 Building and civil engineering technicians
• 5234 Aircraft maintenance and related trades
(b) includes an element of research at PhD level or
above; and
(c) that field of research is a subject set out at ATAS
4.1
ATAS 1.3. The applicant must provide a print-out of the
valid ATAS certificate for the course of study or research
role to show that the ATAS requirement is met.

ATAS condition
ATAS 2.1. The ATAS condition means the person (who
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-atas-academic-technology-approval-scheme-atas

Page 3 of 9

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix ATAS: Academic Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:05 pm

is not a national of a country listed at ATAS 3.1), must
have a valid ATAS certificate before commencing study
(unless they are a student continuing a course of study
and they have made, or intend to make within the
required time period, an application required by ATAS
2.2) or research in a subject listed at ATAS 4.1 which:
(a) leads to a UK postgraduate degree; or
(b) leads to another postgraduate qualification; or
(c) is a period of study which is part of an overseas
postgraduate qualification; or
(d) is research as part of a course of postgraduate
study, employment or academic activity at a licensed
student sponsor.
ATAS 2.2. A Student who intends to continue study on a
course of study which is subject to the ATAS
requirement must apply for a new ATAS certificate
where:
(a) the completion date of the course of study has
changed and will be delayed by more than 3
months; or
(b) the course contents or research proposal of the
course of study change,
and the application for a new certificate must be made
within 28 days of the change in (a) or (b) above being
known to the Student.

Nationals who are exempt from the
ATAS requirement and condition
ATAS 3.1. A person does not need to meet the ATAS
requirement, and will not be subject to the ATAS
condition, if they are a national of any of the following
countries:
Australia
Austria
Belgium
Bulgaria
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-atas-academic-technology-approval-scheme-atas

Page 4 of 9

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix ATAS: Academic Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:05 pm

Canada
Croatia
Republic of Cyprus
Czech Republic
Denmark
Estonia
Finland
France
Germany
Greece
Hungary
Iceland
Ireland
Italy
Japan
Latvia
Liechtenstein
Lithuania
Luxembourg
Malta
Netherlands
New Zealand
Norway
Poland
Portugal
Republic of Korea
Romania
Singapore
Slovakia
Slovenia
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-atas-academic-technology-approval-scheme-atas

Page 5 of 9

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix ATAS: Academic Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:05 pm

Spain
Sweden
Switzerland
United States of America

Academic Subjects relevant to ATAS
ATAS 4.1. The ATAS requirement and ATAS condition
apply to the following subjects:
(a) research, or doctorates or master’s by research in:
Subjects allied to Medicine:
CAH codes:
CAH02-02-01 - Pharmacology
CAH02-02-02 - Toxicology
CAH02-02-03 - Pharmacy
CAH10-01-06 - Bioengineering, Medical and
Biomedical Engineering
Biological Sciences:
CAH codes:
CAH03-01-02 - Biology (non-specific)
CAH03-01-03 - Ecology and Environmental Biology
CAH03-01-06 - Zoology
CAH03-01-04 - Microbiology and Cell Science
CAH03-01-05 - Plant Sciences
CAH10-03-05 - Biotechnology
CAH03-01-07 - Genetics
CAH02-05-03 - Biomedical Sciences (non-specific)
CAH03-01-08 - Molecular Biology, Biophysics and
Biochemistry
CAH03-01-01 - Biosciences (non-specific)
CAH03-01-10 - Others in Biological Sciences
Veterinary Sciences, Agriculture and related
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-atas-academic-technology-approval-scheme-atas

Page 6 of 9

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix ATAS: Academic Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:05 pm

subjects:
CAH codes:
CAH05-01-02 - Others in Veterinary Sciences
CAH06-01-02 - Agricultural sciences
Physical Sciences:
CAH codes:
CAH07-02-01 - Chemistry
CAH10-03-07 - Materials Science
CAH07-01-01 - Physics
CAH07-01-02 - Astronomy
CAH26-01-05 - Others in Geographical Studies
CAH07-04-01 - Physical Sciences (non-specific)
CAH07-04-03 - Sciences (non-specific)
CAH07-04-04 - Natural Sciences (non-specific)
Mathematical and Computer Sciences:
CAH codes:
CAH09-01-01 - Mathematics
CAH09-01-02 - Operational Research
CAH11-01-01 - Computer Science
CAH11-01-02 - Information Technology
CAH11-01-03 - Information Systems
CAH11-01-04 - Software Engineering
CAH11-01-05 - Artificial Intelligence
Engineering:
CAH codes:
CAH10-01-01 - Engineering (non-specific)
CAH10-01-07 - Civil Engineering
CAH10-01-02 - Mechanical Engineering
CAH10-01-04 - Aeronautical and Aerospace
Engineering
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-atas-academic-technology-approval-scheme-atas

Page 7 of 9

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix ATAS: Academic Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:05 pm

CAH10-01-05 - Naval Architecture
CAH10-01-08 - Electrical and Electronic Engineering
CAH10-01-09 - Chemical, Process and Energy
Engineering
Technologies:
CAH codes:
CAH10-03-03 - Polymers and Textiles
CAH10-03-01 - Minerals Technology
CAH10-03-02 - Materials Technology
CAH10-03-04 - Maritime Technology
(b) taught master’s in:
CAH codes:
CAH10-03-07 - Materials Science
CAH07-01-01 - Physics (including Nuclear Physics)
CAH10-01-02 - Mechanical Engineering
CAH10-01-04 - Aeronautical and Aerospace
Engineering
CAH10-01-09 - Chemical, Process and Energy
Engineering
CAH10-03-01 - Minerals Technology
CAH10-03-02 - Materials Technology

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-atas-academic-technology-approval-scheme-atas

Page 8 of 9

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix ATAS: Academic Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS) - Guidance - GOV.UK

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-atas-academic-technology-approval-scheme-atas

07/05/2026, 12:05 pm

© Crown copyright

Page 9 of 9

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Bereaved Partner - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:03 pm

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix Bereaved Partner
Appendix Bereaved Partner
This route allows settlement where a person has, or was
last granted, permission as a partner on a specified
route and their partner has died.
The applicant must be in the UK, unless they were last
granted permission as a partner under Appendix HM
Armed Forces.
Dependent children can also apply on this route.
An alternative route for Bereaved partners of a Gurkha
or Hong Kong military unit veteran discharged before 1
July 1997, is available under Appendix Gurkha and
Hong Kong military unit veteran discharged before 1
July 1997.

Validity requirements for the Bereaved
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-bereaved-partner

Page 1 of 7

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Bereaved Partner - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:03 pm

Validity requirements for the Bereaved
Partner route
BP 1.1. A person applying from outside the UK on the
Bereaved Partner route must apply online for entry
clearance on the gov.uk website on form “VAF (AF)”.
BP 1.2. A person applying in the UK on the Bereaved
Partner route must apply online on the gov.uk website
on the specified form as follows:
(a) for applicants who were last granted permission
as a partner or child under Appendix HM Armed
Forces, form “SET (AF)”; or
(b) for all other bereaved partners or where a child is
applying for permission on the Bereaved Partner
route at the same time as their parent and who is
included in their parent’s application (with the
exception of children granted permission under
Appendix HM Armed Forces), form “SET(O)”; or
(c) for children in the UK who are not applying for
permission on the Bereaved Partner route at the
same time as their parent (with the exception of
those granted permission under Appendix HM
Armed Forces), form “SET(F)”.
BP 1.3. An application on the Bereaved Partner route
must meet all the following validity requirements:
(a) any fee must have been paid (unless the
applicant has been granted a fee waiver); and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other document which satisfactorily establishes their
identity and nationality.
BP 1.4. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for the Bereaved Partner route
may be rejected as invalid and not considered.

Suitability requirements for the
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-bereaved-partner

Page 2 of 7

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Bereaved Partner - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:03 pm

Suitability requirements for the
Bereaved Partner route
BP 2.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under Part
Suitability, but paragraph SUI 11.4(a) does not apply.

Eligibility requirements for the Bereaved
Partner route
Entry requirements for the Bereaved Partner route
BP 3.1. Where a person is outside the UK they must
apply for and obtain entry clearance on the Bereaved
Partner route before they arrive in the UK.
BP 3.2. Where a person is applying for entry clearance
on the Bereaved Partner route they must, if Appendix
Tuberculosis applies, provide a valid medical certificate
confirming that they have undergone screening for
active pulmonary tuberculosis and that this tuberculosis
is not present in them.
Immigration status requirements for a Bereaved
Partner in the UK
BP 4.1. An applicant who is in the UK at the date of
application must have, or have last been granted,
permission as one of the following:
(a) a partner under Appendix FM (except for
permission as a fiancé(e) or proposed civil partner)
of a person who is a British citizen, settled in the UK
or an EEA national in the UK with limited leave to
enter or remain granted under paragraph EU3 of
Appendix EU on the basis of meeting condition 1 in
paragraph EU14 of Appendix EU; or
(b) a partner of a person present and settled in the
UK under paragraph 285 or 295E of Part 8 of these
rules; or
(c) a Bereaved Partner under Appendix FM; or
(d) a partner under Appendix HM Armed Forces or
Part 7 (except for permission as a fiancé(e) or
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-bereaved-partner

Page 3 of 7

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Bereaved Partner - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:03 pm

Part 7 (except for permission as a fiancé(e) or
proposed civil partner), of any of the below:
(i) a person who is a British citizen; or
(ii) a foreign and commonwealth citizen who was
serving member of HM forces; or
(iii) a member of HM Armed forces who has
applied for or been granted permission or
settlement as a foreign and commonwealth
citizen discharged from HM Armed Forces.
Immigration status requirements for a Bereaved
Partner overseas
BP 5.1. An applicant who is in overseas on the date of
application must have, or have last been granted,
permission as:
(a) a partner under Appendix HM Armed Forces or
Part 7 (except for permission as a fiancé(e) or
proposed civil partner), of one of the following:
(i) a person who at the time of their death was a
British citizen; or
(ii) a foreign and commonwealth citizen who was
at the time of their death a serving member of
HM forces; or
(iii) a member of HM Armed forces who at the
time of their death had applied for, and would
have been granted if they had not died, or had
been granted, permission to stay or settlement
as a foreign and commonwealth citizen
discharged from HM Armed Forces.
Relationship requirement for a Bereaved Partner
BP 6.1. The person who was the applicant’s partner at
the time of the applicant’s last grant of permission as a
partner, must have died.
BP 6.2. The applicant and their partner must have been
in a genuine and subsisting relationship immediately
before the partner’s death.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-bereaved-partner

Page 4 of 7

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Bereaved Partner - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:03 pm

before the partner’s death.

Requirements for a dependent child of a
Bereaved Partner
BP 7.1. The applicant must meet the following
requirements for a dependent child in Appendix
Children:
(a) relationship requirement for settlement; and
(b) care requirement; and
(c) age and independent life requirement.
English language requirements for a child of a
Bereaved Partner
BP 8.1. Unless an exemption applies, the applicant
must:
(a) Where the date of application is before 26 March
2027, the applicant must, unless an exemption
applies, show English language ability on the
Common European Framework of Reference for
Languages in speaking and listening to at least level
B1; or
(b) Where the date of application is on or after 26
March 2027, the applicant must, unless an
exemption applies, show English language ability on
the Common European Framework of Reference for
Languages in speaking and listening to at least level
B2.
BP 8.2. The applicant must show they meet the English
language requirement, or that an exemption applies, as
specified in Appendix English Language.
Knowledge of life requirements for a child of a
Bereaved Partner
BP 9.1. The applicant must meet the Knowledge of Life
in the UK requirement, or an exemption must apply, as
set out in Appendix KOL UK.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-bereaved-partner

Page 5 of 7

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Bereaved Partner - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:03 pm

set out in Appendix KOL UK.
Maintenance and Accommodation requirements for
a child of a Bereaved Partner
BP 10.1. Where the applicant is applying as a child, the
decision maker must be satisfied that there will be
adequate maintenance and accommodation for the
applicant without recourse to public funds.
BP 10.2. Funds must be shown as specified in Appendix
FM-SE.

Decision on an application for
settlement on the Bereaved Partner
route
BP 11.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that the
suitability and relevant eligibility requirements on the
Bereaved Partner route are met, the application will be
granted, otherwise the application will be refused.
BP 11.2. If the application is refused, the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.

Period and conditions of grant on the
Bereaved Partner Route
BP 12.1. Where the applicant is outside the UK, they will
be granted entry clearance for settlement.
BP 12.2. Where the applicant is in the UK, they will be
granted settlement.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-bereaved-partner

Page 6 of 7

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Bereaved Partner - Guidance - GOV.UK

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-bereaved-partner

07/05/2026, 12:03 pm

© Crown copyright

Page 7 of 7

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Child Relative (Sponsors with Protection) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:59 am

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix Child Relative
(Sponsors with Protection)
Appendix Child Relative (Sponsors with
Protection)
Appendix Child Relative (Sponsors with Protection) is
also known as Appendix CRP.
Under Appendix CRP, a child may apply for either entry
clearance or permission to stay with or join their close
relative who has protection status in the UK and is not
settled.
Under Appendix CRP, if a person wishes to stay with
their close relative and apply for settlement in the UK,
they can apply at the same time as their close relative,
or after their close relative is settled in the UK, providing
they have or last had entry clearance or permission to
stay under Appendix CRP.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-child-relative-sponsors-with-protection

Page 1 of 8

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Child Relative (Sponsors with Protection) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:59 am

There is a separate entry clearance route for a child to
join a relative who is settled in the UK under paragraph
297 of Part 8.

Entry clearance or permission to stay
with or join a close relative
Validity requirements for entry clearance or
permission to stay with or join a close relative
CRP 1.1. A person applying for permission to stay in the
UK with their close relative must apply on the GOV.UK
website on the specified form as follows: “FLR (P).
CRP 1.1A. A person applying for entry clearance to join
their close relative in the UK must apply online on the
GOV.UK website on the specified form as follows: “Child
of a close relative with protection status in the UK”.
CRP 1.2. An application for entry clearance or
permission to stay with or join a close relative in the UK
must meet all the following requirements:
(a) any fee and Immigration Health Charge must
have been paid (unless the applicant has been
granted a fee waiver); and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have satisfactorily established
their identity and nationality; and
(d) the applicant’s close relative must currently have
protection status in the UK; and
(e) the applicant must be under the age of 18 on the
date of application.
CRP 1.3. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for entry clearance or permission
to stay with or join a close relative in the UK may be
rejected as invalid and not considered.
Suitability requirements for entry clearance or
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-child-relative-sponsors-with-protection

Page 2 of 8

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Child Relative (Sponsors with Protection) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:59 am

permission to stay with or join a close relative
CRP 2.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
Eligibility requirements for entry clearance or
permission to stay with or join a close relative
CRP 3.1. The applicant must meet the following
requirements for a dependent child in Appendix
Children:
(a) independent life requirement; and
(b) care requirement.
CRP 3.2. The decision maker must be satisfied that the
applicant has no family other than the close relative in
the UK that could reasonably be expected to support or
care for them.

Relationship requirements for entry
clearance or permission to stay with or
join a close relative
CRP 4.1. The decision maker must be satisfied that the
applicant has an existing, genuine family relationship
with their close relative in the UK.
CRP 4.2. The person with protection status in the UK
must be a close relative of the applicant.

Maintenance and accommodation
requirements for entry clearance or
permission to stay with or join a close
relative
CRP 5.1. The close relative in the UK must be able to
provide adequate maintenance and accommodation for
the applicant without reliance on public funds.
CRP 5.2. The applicant must provide evidence of funds
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-child-relative-sponsors-with-protection

Page 3 of 8

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Child Relative (Sponsors with Protection) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:59 am

as specified in Appendix FM-SE.

Eligibility under Article 8 of the Human
Rights Convention for entry clearance or
permission to stay with or join a close
relative
CRP 6.1. Where the applicant does not meet all the
suitability or eligibility requirements (subject to CRP
6.2), the decision maker must be satisfied that refusal of
the application would not breach Article 8 of the Human
Rights Convention because it would result in
unjustifiably harsh consequences for the applicant or
their family.
CRP 6.2. Where CRP 6.1. applies and the decision
maker is satisfied that the applicant should be refused
under paragraph SUI 2.1., paragraph SUI 2.3.,
paragraph SUI 3.1., paragraph SUI 4.1. and paragraph
SUI 5.1. of Part Suitability, the application to stay with or
join a close relative in the UK will be refused.

Decision on an application for entry
clearance or permission to stay with or
join a close relative
CRP 7.1. Where the decision maker is satisfied that all
the relevant eligibility requirements are met, unless
paragraph CRP 6.2. applies, the application will be
granted permission which expires on the same date as
their close relative’s permission in the UK; otherwise,
the application will be refused.

Period of grant for entry clearance or
permission to stay with or join a close
relative
CRP 8.1. The applicant will be granted permission
which expires on the same date as their close relative’s
permission in the UK.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-child-relative-sponsors-with-protection

Page 4 of 8

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Child Relative (Sponsors with Protection) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:59 am

Conditions of grant for entry clearance
or permission to stay with or join a close
relative
CRP 9.1. The applicant’s permission will be subject to
the following conditions:
(a) no access to public funds, unless CRP 9.2.
applies; and
(b) work permitted (including self-employment and
voluntary work); and (c) study is permitted, subject
to the ATAS condition in Appendix ATAS.
CRP 9.2. Where the decision maker is satisfied that:
(a) the close relative in the UK is destitute as defined
in section 95 of the Immigration and Asylum Act
1999, or is at risk of imminent destitution; or
(b) there are reasons relating to the welfare of the
applicant which outweigh the considerations for
imposing or maintaining the condition (treating the
best interests of a relevant child as a primary
consideration); or
(c) the applicant is facing exceptional circumstances
affecting their income or expenditure;
then the applicant’s permission will not be subject to a
condition of no access to public funds.
CRP 9.3. For the purposes of CRP 9.2, ‘relevant child’
means a person who:
(a) is under the age of 18 years on the date of
application; and
(b) would be affected by a decision to impose or
maintain the no access to public funds condition
based on the information provided by the applicant.

Settlement to stay with a close relative
Validity requirements for settlement to stay with a
close
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-child-relative-sponsors-with-protection

Page 5 of 8

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Child Relative (Sponsors with Protection) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:59 am

CRP 10.1. A person in the UK applying for settlement to
stay with their close relative in the UK must apply on the
specified form “Apply to extend your stay or apply for
indefinite leave to remain if your asylum claim has been
refused and you have been given discretionary leave, or
apply for settlement to stay with a close relative (FLR
(DL))”.
CRP 10.2. An application for settlement to stay with a
close relative in the UK must meet all the following
requirements:
(a) any fee must have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must be in the UK on the date of
application; and
(d) the applicant must have satisfactorily established
their identity and nationality; and
(e) the applicant must have, or have last had,
permission to stay with or join their close relative in
the UK under Appendix CRP; and
(f) the applicant’s close relative must:
(i) have made a separate but valid application for
settlement in the UK, and that application has
not yet been decided; or
(ii) be already settled in the UK, providing they
had protection status when they settled.
CRP 10.3. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for settlement to stay with their
close relative in the UK may be rejected as invalid and
not considered.
Suitability requirements for settlement to stay with a
close relative
CRP 11.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-child-relative-sponsors-with-protection

Page 6 of 8

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Child Relative (Sponsors with Protection) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:59 am

Eligibility requirements for settlement to stay with a
close relative Requirements for settlement to stay
with a close relative
CRP 12.1. The applicant must meet the following
requirements for a dependent child in Appendix
Children:
(a) independent life requirement; and
(b) care requirement.

English language requirement for
settlement to stay with a close relative
CRP 13.1. Unless an exemption applies, the applicant
must:
(a) Where the date of application is before 26 March
2027, the applicant must, unless an exemption
applies, show English language ability on the
Common European Framework of Reference for
Languages in speaking and listening to at least level
B1; or
(b) Where the date of application is on or after 26
March 2027, the applicant must, unless an
exemption applies, show English language ability on
the Common European Framework of Reference for
Languages in speaking and listening to at least level
B2.
CRP 13.2. The applicant must show they meet the
English language requirement, or are exempt, as
specified in Appendix English Language.

Knowledge of life in the UK requirement
for settlement to stay with a close
relative
CRP 14.1. Unless an exemption applies, the applicant
must meet the Knowledge of Life in the UK requirement
as set out in Appendix KOL UK.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-child-relative-sponsors-with-protection

Page 7 of 8

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Child Relative (Sponsors with Protection) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:59 am

Decision on an application for
settlement to stay with a close relative
CRP 15.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all the
suitability and eligibility requirements for settlement to
stay with their close relative in the UK are met, the
application will be granted.
CRP 15.2. If the decision maker is not satisfied that the
applicant meets all the suitability and eligibility
requirements, the application for settlement to stay with
their close relative in the UK will be refused.

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-child-relative-sponsors-with-protection

© Crown copyright

Page 8 of 8

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Child Student - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:34 am

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix Child Student
Immigration Rules for Child Students
The Child Student route is for a person aged between 4
and 17 who wants to study at an independent school in
the UK, which is a student sponsor.
A person aged 16 or 17 who wants to study a course at
or above Regulated Qualifications Framework level 3 or
Scottish Credit and Qualifications Framework level 6,
can choose either to apply as a Child Student at an
independent school or as a Student under Appendix
Student.

Validity requirements for a Child Student
CS 1.1. A person applying for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a Child Student must apply on the
specified form on gov.uk as follows:
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-child-student

Page 1 of 19

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Child Student - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:34 am

(a) for applicants outside the UK applying for entry
clearance, form “Child Student visa”; or
(b) or applicants in the UK applying for permission to
stay, form “Child Student”.
CS 1.2. An application for entry clearance or permission
to stay as a Child Student must meet all the following
requirements:
(a) any fee and Immigration Health Charge must
have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other travel document which satisfactorily
establishes their identity and nationality; and
(d) the applicant must on the date of application
have a Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies
reference number that was issued to the applicant
no more than 6 months before the date of
application.
CS 1.3. The applicant must be between 4 and 17 years
old at the date of application.
CS 1.4. If the applicant has, in the last 12 months before
the date of application, completed a course of studies in
the UK for which they have been awarded a scholarship
or sponsorship by a Government or international
scholarship agency covering both fees and living costs
for study in the UK, they must provide written consent in
relation to the application from that Government or
agency.
CS 1.5. If applying for permission to stay, the applicant
must be in the UK on the date of application.
CS 1.5A. If applying for permission to stay, the applicant
must not have, or have last been granted, permission:
(a) as a Visitor; or
(b) as a Short-term Student; or
(c) outside the Immigration Rules.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-child-student

Page 2 of 19

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Child Student - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:34 am

CS 1.6. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for a Child Student may be
rejected as invalid and not considered.

Suitability requirements for a Child
Student
CS2.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under Part
Suitability.
CS2.2. A person applying for permission to stay must
not be:
(a) in the UK in breach of immigration laws, except
that where the Exceptions for overstayers section of
Part Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will
be disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.

Eligibility requirements for a Child
Student
Entry requirements for a Child Student
CS 3.1. A person seeking to come to the UK as a Child
Student must apply for and obtain entry clearance as a
Child Student before they arrive in the UK.
CS 3.2. A person applying for entry clearance as a Child
Student must, if Appendix Tuberculosis applies, provide
a valid medical certificate confirming that they have
undergone screening for active pulmonary tuberculosis
and that this tuberculosis is not present in them.
Date of application requirement for a Child Student
CS 4.1. An application for entry clearance as a Child
Student must be made no more than 6 months before
the start date of the course as stated on the
Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-child-student

Page 3 of 19

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Child Student - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:34 am

CS 4.2. An application for permission to stay must be
made no more than 3 months before the start date of
the course on the Confirmation of Acceptance for
Studies.
CS 4.3. An application for permission to stay must be for
a course with a start date no more than 28 days after
the expiry date of the previous permission to stay.
Genuine Child Student Requirement
CS 5.1. An applicant aged 16 or 17 years old must be a
genuine student.
Care Requirement for a Child Student
CS 5A.1. The decision maker must be satisfied that
there are appropriate care, living and, where applicable,
guardianship arrangements in place for the applicant’s
safety whilst in the UK.
CS5A.2. An application for entry clearance or
permission to stay must be refused where the Child
Student’s nominated guardian, close relative, or private
foster carer who has been appointed by the Child
Student’s parent, school, or legal guardian to care for
their child in the UK, or any adult regularly living with the
nominated guardian:
(a) has been convicted of a criminal offence in the
UK or overseas for which they have received a
custodial sentence of 12 months or more; or
(b) is a persistent offender who shows a particular
disregard for the law; or
(c) has committed a criminal offence, or offences,
which caused serious harm.
CS5A.3. An application for entry clearance or
permission to stay may be refused where the Child
Student’s nominated guardian, close relative, or private
foster carer, who has been appointed by the Child
Student’s parent, school, or legal guardian to care for
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-child-student

Page 4 of 19

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Child Student - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:34 am

their child in the UK, or any adult regularly living with the
nominated guardian:
(a) has been convicted of a criminal offence in the
UK or overseas for which they have received a
custodial sentence of less than 12 months; or
(b) has been convicted of a criminal offence in the
UK or overseas for which they have received a noncustodial sentence, or received an out-of-court
disposal that is recorded on their criminal record.
Points Requirement for a Child Student
CS 6.1. The applicant must be awarded all 70 points in
the table below
Points
type

Relevant requirements to be
met

Number of
points

Study

• Confirmation of Acceptance
for Studies requirement
• Course requirement
• Study at an independent
school
• Aged between 4 and 17
when applying
• Parental consent

50

Financial

• Financial requirement

20

Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies requirement
for a Child Student
CS 7.1. The Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies
must have been issued by a student sponsor which is
an independent school whose sponsor licence is still
valid on the date on which the application is decided.
CS 7.2. The Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies
must not have been used in a previous application
which was either granted or refused (but could have
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-child-student

Page 5 of 19

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Child Student - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:34 am

been relied upon in a previous application which was
rejected as invalid, made void or withdrawn).
CS 7.3. The student sponsor must not have withdrawn
the offer since the Confirmation of Acceptance for
Studies was issued.
CS 7.4. The Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies
must contain the necessary information to confirm that
the course requirement is met.
CS 7.5. The Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies
must state the cost of accommodation and fees (and
any payment already made) so that the financial
requirement can be assessed.
Course requirement for a Child Student
CS 8.1. The application must be for a single course of
study that meets the requirements at CS 8.2, unless it is
for a combined pre-sessional course that meets the
requirement at CS 11.1.
CS 8.2. The course for which the Confirmation of
Acceptance for Studies has been assigned must be one
of the following:
(a) taught in accordance with the National
Curriculum; or
(b) taught in accordance with the Recognised
Qualification Framework (RQF), and is not a
foundation course intended to prepare the Child
Student for entry to a course provided by a higher
education provider; or
(c) accepted as being of equivalent academic status
to (a) or (b) above by Ofsted (England), the
Education and Training Inspectorate (Northern
Ireland), Education Scotland (Scotland) or Estyn
(Wales); or
(d) provided in accordance with prevailing
Independent School education inspection standards.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-child-student

Page 6 of 19

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Child Student - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:34 am

Parental consent requirement for a Child Student
CS 9.1. The applicant must meet the parental consent
requirement for applicant not applying as a dependent
child in Appendix Children.
CS 9.2. DELETED
CS 9.3. If the applicant will be living with a nominated
guardian, close relative, or private foster carer, that
nominated guardian, close relative or foster carer must
be:
(a) a British citizen; or
(b) settled in the UK.
CS 9.3A. If the Child Student will have a nominated
guardian in the UK arranged through a guardianship
organisation but does not have their details at the point
of application, the named contact on the letter of
undertaking from the guardianship organisation must
be:
(a) a British citizen: or
(b) settled in the UK
CS 9.4. The Child Student’s nominated guardian, close
relative, or private foster carer who has been appointed
by the child student’s parent, school, or legal guardian
to care for their child in the UK (the intended carer) must
provide a letter of undertaking which contains the
following information:
(a) the name, current address and contact details of
the intended carer; and
(b) the address where the intended carer and the
Child Student will be living in the UK, if different from
the intended carer’s current address; and
(c) confirmation that the accommodation offered to
the Child Student is a private address, and not
operated as a commercial enterprise, such as a
hotel or a youth hostel; and
(d) the nature of the relationship between the Child
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-child-student

Page 7 of 19

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Child Student - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:34 am

Student’s parent(s) or legal guardian(s) and the
intended carer; and
(e) confirmation that the intended carer agrees to the
care arrangements for the Child Student; and
(f) a list of any other people that the intended carer
supports or has offered to support; and
(g) where the Child Student will be cared for by a
nominated guardian, details of the name, date of
birth, registered address, contact details and, if they
have one, national insurance number, of any adult
regularly living with the nominated guardian; and
(h) if the applicant is not boarding at a residential
independent school and instead staying with a close
relative or private foster carer, that the carer has at
least £570 per month available to look after and
accommodate the applicant, for each month of the
course up to a maximum of 9 months; and
(i) the intended carer’s signature and date of the
letter of undertaking.
CS 9.4A. Where the Child Student will have a
nominated guardian in the UK arranged through a
guardianship organisation but does not have their
details at the point of application, the guardianship
organisation must provide a letter of undertaking which
contains the following information:
• the name and contact details of a member of staff
at the guardianship organisation who is a British
Citizen or settled in the UK; and
• the name and address of the guardianship
organisation; and
• the date the guardianship organisation was
established; and
• confirmation that all guardians that the organisation
uses have a current enhanced Disclosure and
Barring Check (England and Wales), Protecting
Vulnerable Groups Scheme (Scotland) or Disclosure
and Barring Check (Northern Ireland).
CS 9.5. If the applicant is staying in a private foster care
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-child-student

Page 8 of 19

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Child Student - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:34 am

arrangement and is aged under 16 years, the applicant
must also provide:
(a) a copy of the letter of notification from their parent,
legal guardian or intended carer to the UK local
authority, confirming that the applicant will be in the care
of a private foster carer while in the UK; and
(b) the UK local authority’s confirmation of receipt,
confirming that the local authority has received
notification of the private foster care arrangement and
have given permission to the arrangement.
Living arrangement requirement for a Child Student
CS 9A.1.The parental consent letter or intended carer’s
letter of undertaking must confirm the applicant’s living
arrangements in the UK will be one of the following:
(a) full, weekly, or flexi boarding at a residential
independent school, and during the period they are
not boarding at the school staying with:
(i) a nominated guardian (for a period of less
than 28 continuous days) who is a British Citizen
or settled in the UK; or
(ii) a private foster carer who is a British Citizen
or settled in the UK; or
(iii) a close relative who is a British Citizen or
settled in the UK; or
(iv) their parent who has permission as a Parent
of a Child Student; or
(b) living full time with a private foster carer or close
relative who is a British Citizen or settled in the UK;
or
(c) living full time with a parent or legal guardian who
has permission as a Parent of a Child Student; or
(d) aged 16 or 17 and living independently.
Financial requirement for a Child Student
CS 10.1. If the applicant is applying for permission to
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-child-student

Page 9 of 19

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Child Student - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:34 am

stay and has been in the UK with permission for 12
months or longer on the date of application, they will
meet the financial requirement and do not need to show
funds.
CS 10.2. If the applicant is applying for entry clearance
or for permission to stay where they have been in the
UK for less than 12 months on the date of application,
the applicant must show the following funds:
Living
arrangements

Funds Required

Full, weekly, or
flexi boarding
at a residential
independent
school, and
when they are
not staying at
the school
living with:

Sufficient funds to pay the
outstanding course fees and boarding
fees for one academic year.

(i) a nominated
guardian (for a
period of less
than 28 days)
who is a British
Citizen or
settled in the
UK; or
(ii) a private
foster carer
who is a British
Citizen or
settled in the
UK; or
(iii) a close
relative who is
a British
Citizen or
settled in the
UK; or
(iv) their parent
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-child-student

Page 10 of 19

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Child Student - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:34 am

who has
permission as
a Parent of a
Child Student.
Living full time
with a private
foster carer or
close relative
who is a British
Citizen or
settled in the
UK.

Sufficient funds to pay the
outstanding course fees for one
academic year.
The private foster carer or close
relative must have funds of at least
£570 per month for each month of the
course up to the maximum of 9
months.

Living full time
with a parent or
legal guardian
who has
permission as
a Parent of a
Child Student.

Sufficient funds to pay the
outstanding course fees and boarding
fees for one academic year and:

Aged 16 or 17
and living
independently.

Sufficient funds to pay the
outstanding course fees for one
academic year and either:

a. if no other children are or will be
under the parent’s care in the UK at
the same time as the applicant,
£1,560 per month for each month of
the course up to maximum of 9
months; and
b. if there are other children who are
or will be under the parent’s care in
the UK at the same time as the
applicant, £625 per month for each
month of the course up to a maximum
of 9 months for each child, other than
the applicant, being cared for by the
parent.

a. £1,334 for each month of the
course up to a maximum of 9 months
where studying in London; or
b. £1023 for each month of the course
up to a maximum of 9 months where
studying outside London.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-child-student

Page 11 of 19

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Child Student - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:34 am

If the length of the applicant’s course includes a part of
a month, the period of time will be rounded up to the
next full month.
CS 10.3. Unless the applicant is relying on a student
loan or an award from a Government or international
scholarship agency, they must show that they have held
the required level of funds for a 28-day period and as
specified in Appendix Finance.
CS 10.4. The applicant must not be financially
responsible for anyone else.
Combined pre-sessional course requirement for a
Child Student
CS 11.1. A single Confirmation of Acceptance for
Studies can be assigned by an independent school for a
combined pre-sessional course and a main course if:
(a) the applicant has an unconditional offer of a
place at the independent school; and
(b) the duration of the pre-sessional course and
period of study at the independent school does not
exceed the maximum period of permission granted
as set out at CS 15.2.
Evidence of qualifications requirement for a Child
Student
CS 12.1. The applicant must provide evidence of the
qualifications they used to obtain the offer of a place on
the course from the student sponsor.
CS 12.2. The evidence of each qualification must be
one of the following:
(a) the certificate(s) of qualification; or
(b) the transcript of results; or
(c) a print out of the qualification or transcript results
from the awarding body’s online checking service.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-child-student

Page 12 of 19

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Child Student - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:34 am

CS 12.3. Where the applicant has provided a print out of
qualifications or transcript results from the awarding
body’s online checking service, the decision maker may
require the applicant to provide the certificate of
qualification or transcript of results.
Differential evidence requirement for a Child
Student
CS 13.1. Evidence to show that the applicant meets the
financial requirement and the requirement to provide
evidence of qualifications does not need to be provided
with the application (but may be required by the decision
maker) if the applicant is applying from the country or
territory where they are living, or from in the UK, and the
applicant either:
(a) holds a valid passport which shows they are
registered as a British National (Overseas), or which
was issued by the competent authorities of Hong
Kong SAR, Macau SAR or Taiwan (that includes the
number of the identification card issued by the
competent authority in Taiwan); or
(b) is a national of any of the following:
Australia
Austria
Bahrain
Barbados
Belgium
Botswana
Brazil
Brunei
Bulgaria
Cambodia
Canada
Chile
China
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-child-student

Page 13 of 19

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Child Student - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:34 am

Croatia
Republic of Cyprus
Czech Republic
Denmark
The Dominican Republic
Estonia
Finland
France
Germany
Greece
Hungary
Iceland
Indonesia
Ireland
Italy
Japan
Kazakhstan
Kuwait
Latvia
Liechtenstein
Lithuania
Luxembourg
Malaysia
Malta
Mauritius
Mexico
Netherlands
New Zealand
Norway
Oman
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-child-student

Page 14 of 19

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Child Student - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:34 am

Peru
Poland
Portugal
Qatar
Romania
Serbia
Singapore
Slovakia
Slovenia
South Korea
Spain
Sweden
Switzerland
Thailand
Tunisia
United Arab Emirates
United States of America

Decision on an application as a Child
Student
CS 14.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all the
suitability and eligibility requirements for a Child Student
are met, the application will be granted, otherwise the
application will be refused.
CS 14.2. If the application is refused, the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.

Period and conditions grant for a Child
Student
CS 15.1. The grant will subject to the following
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-child-student

Page 15 of 19

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Child Student - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:34 am

conditions:
(a) no access to public funds; and
(b) no work until the Child Student is aged over 16
years, then work allowed as specified in CS 16.1;
and
(c) no study except as specified in CS 17.
(d) DELETED
CS 15.2. The period of grant before the start of the
course for an applicant applying for entry clearance will
be:
(a) the relevant period of permission granted before
the course date which is set out in the table below, if
entry clearance is granted 1 month or more before
the start date of the course or; or
(b) 7 days before the intended date of travel, if entry
clearance is granted less than 1 month before the
start date of the course; or
(c) with immediate effect, if entry clearance is
granted less than 7 days before the intended date of
travel and less than 1 month before the start date of
the course.
The applicant will be granted permission for the duration
of the course as specified on the Confirmation of
Acceptance for Studies and the relevant additional
periods dependant on their age as specified in the table
below:
Ages

Period of
granted
before
course start
date

Period
granted for
study

Period
granted after
course end
date

Under
16
years

1 month

The shortest
of:

4 months

• the period
requested by
the applicant;
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-child-student

Page 16 of 19

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Child Student - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:34 am

or
• the duration
of the course
of study; or
• 6 years
16 or
17
years

1 month

The shortest
of:

4 months

• the period
requested by
the applicant;
or
• the duration
of the course
of study; or
• 3 years

Work Conditions for a Child Student
CS 16.1. A Child Student who is aged 16 or over may
work:
(a) for no more than 10 hours per week during term
time; and
(b) for any duration during vacation (including before
the course starts); and
(c) on a course-related work placement which forms
an assessed part of the Child Student’s course;
provided that any period that the Child Student
spends on that placement does not exceed half of
the total length of the course undertaken in the UK,
unless it is a UK statutory requirement that the
placement should exceed half the total length of the
course.
CS 16.2. A Child Student will not be allowed to do any of
the following work:
(a) be self-employed or engage in business activity;
or
(b) work as a professional sportsperson (including
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-child-student

Page 17 of 19

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Child Student - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:34 am

as a sports coach); or
(c) work as an entertainer, or
(d) work in a position which would fill a permanent
full-time vacancy.

Study Conditions for a Child Student
CS 17.1. A Child Student must study on the course or
courses for which the Confirmation of Acceptance for
Studies was assigned, unless:
(a) they have yet to complete the course for which
the Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies was
assigned; and
(b) they begin study on a new course at the student
sponsor institution and the new course is at a higher
or the same level as the course for which the
Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies was
assigned and is not a foundation course intended to
prepare the student for entry to a higher education
provider.
CS 17.2. A Child Student must study with the student
sponsor which issued their Confirmation of Acceptance
for Studies, unless:
(a) they are studying at an institution which is a
partner institution of their student sponsor; or
(b) they have made an application for permission to
stay while they have permission as a Child Student
which is supported by a valid Confirmation of
Acceptance for Studies assigned by a student
sponsor, the application has not yet been decided,
or any Administrative Review against refusal of that
decision has not been determined, and the Child
Student will be studying at the student sponsor that
assigned the Confirmation of Acceptance for
Studies.
CS 17.3. Supplementary study is permitted.
CS 17.4. A Child Student must not study at a state
school or academy except for:
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-child-student

Page 18 of 19

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Child Student - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:34 am

(a) a voluntary grammar school with boarding in
Northern Ireland: or
(b) if the Child Student has been granted permission
to study at a student sponsor which becomes a state
school or academy during that period of permission,
in which case the Child Student may complete the
course for which the Confirmation of Acceptance for
Studies was assigned.

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-child-student

© Crown copyright

Page 19 of 19

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Children - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:08 pm

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix Children
This Appendix sets out the requirements for
applications made by children.
This appendix takes into account the need to safeguard
and promote the welfare of children in the UK, in line
with the Secretary of State’s duty under section 55 of
the Borders, Citizenship and Immigration Act 2009.
It applies to applications on specified routes as set out
in this Appendix.

Applicant applying as a dependent child
This section applies to the following routes (to the extent
set out in the route), where the applicant is applying as
a dependent child:
• Appendix HM Armed Forces
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-children

Page 1 of 8

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Children - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:08 pm

• Appendix International Armed Forces and
International Civilian Employees
• Appendix Settlement Protection
• Appendix Student
• Appendix Graduate
• Appendix Skilled Worker
• Appendix Global Business Mobility – Senior or
Specialist Worker
• Appendix Global Business Mobility – Graduate
Trainee
• Appendix Global Business Mobility – UK
Expansion Worker
• Appendix Global Business Mobility – Service
Supplier
• Appendix Global Business Mobility – Secondment
Worker
• Appendix T2 Minister of Religion
• Appendix Representative of an Overseas Business
• Appendix UK Ancestry
• Appendix Global Talent
• Appendix High Potential Individual
• Appendix Scale-up
• Appendix Start-up
• Appendix Innovator Founder
• Appendix International Sportsperson
• Appendix Domestic Workers in a Private
Household
• Appendix Temporary Work – Creative Worker
• Appendix Temporary Work – Religious Worker
• Appendix Temporary Work – Charity Worker
• Appendix Temporary Work – International
Agreement
• Appendix Temporary Work – Government
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-children

Page 2 of 8

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Children - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:08 pm

Authorised Exchange
• Appendix Hong Kong British National (Overseas)
• Appendix Family Reunion (Sponsors with
Protection)
• Appendix Child Relative (Sponsors with Protection)
• Appendix Victim of Domestic Abuse
• Appendix Bereaved Partner
• Appendix Adoption
• Appendix Private Life
• Appendix Gurkha and Hong Kong military unit
veteran discharged before 1 July 1997
• Appendix Statelessness
Age Requirement
CHI 1.1. The applicant must be under the age of 18 on
the date of application unless CHI 1.2 applies.
CHI 1.2. The applicant may be aged 18 or older on the
date of application if the applicant was last granted entry
clearance or permission to stay as the dependent child
of their parent or parents, and either:
(a) the entry clearance or permission to stay is valid
on the date of application or expired no more than
14 days before the date of application, except that
where the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) the applicant is applying as a dependent child
under Appendix Bereaved Partner or Appendix
Victim of Domestic Abuse.
Independent Life Requirement
CHI 1A.1. The applicant must not be leading an
independent life.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-children

Page 3 of 8

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Children - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:08 pm

Care Requirement
CHI 2.1. If the applicant is under the age of 18 on the
date of application, there must be suitable arrangements
for the child’s care and accommodation in the UK which
must comply with relevant UK law.
Relationship Requirement: Entry Clearance and
Permission to Stay
CHI 3.1. Where the application is for entry clearance or
permission to stay, the applicant must be the child of a
parent (P) where one of the following applies:
(a) P has entry clearance or permission to stay on
the same route the applicant is applying for; or
(b) P is, at the same time, applying for (and is
granted) entry clearance or permission to stay on
the same route the applicant is applying for; or
(c) P is settled or has become a British citizen,
providing P previously had permission to stay on the
same route the applicant is applying for and the
applicant had permission as P’s child at that time or
was born since P’s last grant of permission and
before P settled; or
(d) P is settled or has become a British citizen,
providing P had permission on the UK Ancestry
route when they settled and the applicant is applying
on the UK Ancestry route; or
(e) the applicant is applying under Appendix HM
Armed Forces and P is:
(i) a member of HM Armed Forces who is
exempt from immigration control; or
(ii) at the same time applying for (and is being
granted) settlement as a HM Armed Forces
service leaver; or
(iii) settled or is a British citizen and P had
permission (or exemption) as a member of HM
Armed Forces before they were granted
citizenship; or
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-children

Page 4 of 8

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Children - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:08 pm

(f) the applicant is applying under Appendix
International Armed Forces and P is a member of an
International Armed Forces exempt from immigration
control.
CHI 3.2. The applicant’s parents must each be either
applying at the same time as the applicant or have
permission to be in the UK (other than as a Visitor)
unless:
(a) the parent applying for or with entry clearance or
permission to stay is the sole surviving parent or has
sole responsibility for the child’s upbringing; or
(b) the parent who does not have permission:
(i) is a British citizen or a person who has a right
to enter or stay in the UK without restriction; and
(ii) lives, or intends to live, in the UK; or
(c) the decision maker is satisfied that there are
serious and compelling reasons to grant the
applicant entry clearance or permission to stay with
the parent who is applying for or has entry clearance
or permission to stay or who is covered by CHI 3.2.
(b).
CHI 3.3. If the applicant was born in the UK and is the
child of a person with permission or their partner, the
applicant must provide a full UK birth certificate showing
the names of their parent(s).
Relationship Requirement: Settlement
CHI 4.1. Where the application is for settlement, the
applicant must be the child of a person (P) where one of
the following applies:
(a) P is, at the same time, being granted settlement
on the same route the applicant is applying for; or
(b) P is settled or has become a British citizen,
providing P previously had permission on the same
route the applicant is applying for or;
(c) the applicant is applying under Appendix HM
Armed Forces and P:
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-children

Page 5 of 8

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Children - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:08 pm

(i) is a member of HM Armed Forces exempt
from immigration control with at least 5 years’
reckonable service; or
(ii) has been granted or, is at the same time
applying for (and is being granted) settlement as
a HM Armed Forces service leaver; or
(iii) has leave to enter or remain under this
Appendix or Part 7 paragraphs 276E-QA of
these Rules or under the concession which
existed outside these Rules whereby the
Secretary of State exercised their discretion to
grant leave to enter or remain to a member of
HM Forces who has been medically discharged;
or
(iv) is settled or is a British citizen and P had
permission (or exemption) as a member of HM
Armed Forces before they were granted
citizenship.
CHI 4.2. The applicant must:
(a) have last been granted permission as a
dependent child of P in CHI 4.1; or
(b) have been born in the UK and be applying as a
child of P in CHI 4.1; or
(c) where the application is under Appendix UK
Ancestry, the applicant must be applying as a child
of P in CHI 4.1; or
(d) have last been granted permission under
Appendix Adoption as the child of P in CHI 4.1; or
(e) where (a), (b), (c) and (d) do not apply and the
application is under Appendix Bereaved Partner or
Appendix Victim of Domestic Abuse, the applicant
must have been born overseas after P’s grant of
permission as a partner and be applying as a child
of P in CHI 4.1.
CHI 4.3. The applicant’s other parent (who is not the
person (P)) in CHI 4.1. must be being granted
settlement at the same time, or be settled or a British
citizen, unless:
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-children

Page 6 of 8

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Children - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:08 pm

(a) the person (P) in CHI 4.1. is the applicant’s sole
surviving parent or has sole responsibility for the
applicant’s upbringing; or
(b) the decision maker is satisfied that there are
serious and compelling reasons to grant the
applicant settlement; or
(c) the applicant is applying as a dependent child
under Appendix Victim of Domestic Abuse.
CHI 4.4. If the applicant was born in the UK and is the
child of a person with permission, or their partner, the
applicant must provide a full UK birth certificate showing
the names of their parent(s).

Applicant not applying as a dependent
child
This section applies to the following routes, where the
applicant is not applying as a dependent child under:
• Appendix Child Student
• Appendix International Sportsperson
• Appendix Returning Resident
• Appendix Short-term Student (English language)
• Appendix Student
• Appendix Temporary Work – Creative Worker
• Appendix Temporary Work – Government
Authorised Exchange
• Appendix UK Ancestry
Parental Consent Requirement for applicant not
applying as a dependent child
CHI 5.1. If the applicant is under the age of 18 on the
date of application, they must have written consent
from:
(a) both parents; or
(b) one parent, if that parent has sole responsibility
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-children

Page 7 of 8

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Children - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:08 pm

for the applicant; or
(c) the applicant’s legal guardian.
CHI 5.2. The written consent must provide contact
details of the parent(s) or legal guardian and confirm
consent is given for all of the following:
(a) the application; and
(b) the applicant’s living and care arrangements in
the UK; and
(c) if the application is for entry clearance, the
applicant’s travel to, and reception arrangements in,
the UK.

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-children

© Crown copyright

Page 8 of 8

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Continuous Residence - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:08 pm

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix
Continuous Residence
This Appendix sets out how the continuous
residence requirement is met.
Where the continuous residence requirement is
specified within the relevant Immigration Rules, it will be
satisfied where applicants have been resident in the UK
for the qualifying period required by their route with
permission, their continuous residence must not be
broken, and their absences from the UK must not
exceed the maximum permitted.
This Appendix applies only to applications under
Appendix HM Armed Forces (only settlement as a
Partner or Child), Appendix Skilled Worker, Appendix
Representative of an Overseas Business, Appendix
Global Talent, Appendix Innovator Founder, Appendix
T2 Minister of Religion, Appendix International
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-continuous-residence

Page 1 of 9

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Continuous Residence - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:08 pm

Sportsperson, Appendix UK Ancestry, Appendix
Domestic Worker in a Private Household, Appendix
Temporary Work - International Agreement, Appendix
Scale-up, Appendix Settlement Family Life, Appendix
Private Life (settlement only, apart from where the
applicant is applying to settle as a child born in the UK),
Appendix Hong Kong National (Overseas), Appendix
Long Residence, Appendix ECAA Settlement, and Part
6A (for Tier 1 (Entrepreneur) and Tier 1 (Investor) only).

Calculating the qualifying period
CR 1.1. The qualifying period for continuous residence
will be calculated by counting back from whichever of
the following dates is the most beneficial to the
applicant, taking periods of absence into account:
(a) the date of application; or
(b) any date up to 28 days after the date of
application; or
(c) the date of decision; or
(d) if the applicant is applying for settlement on the
UK Ancestry route, and their last grant of permission
was not as a person with UK Ancestry, the date their
most recent permission as a person with UK
Ancestry expired.
CR 1.2. The qualifying period can vary between routes.
The specific length of the qualifying period required is
set out in the rules for the route the person is applying
for.

Lawful presence
CR 2.1. The applicant will not be regarded as lawfully
present in the UK (and these periods will not count
towards the qualifying period for continuous residence):
(a) during any period of imprisonment or detention
under CR 4.1.(a) or CR 4.4.; and
(b) during any period the applicant is subject to a
deportation order, exclusion order, or exclusion
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-continuous-residence

Page 2 of 9

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Continuous Residence - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:08 pm

direction; and
(c) during any period when the applicant is subject to
removal directions under section 10 of the
Immigration and Asylum Act 1999 (except where the
application is under Appendix Long Residence); and
(d) during any period where the applicant required
permission and did not have it unless:
(i) the applicant was in the UK without
permission in the period from 1 to 31 August
2020; and
(ii) the applicant had permission immediately
before that period,
in which case the applicant will be treated as lawfully
present between 1 and 31 August 2020.

Absence from the UK
CR 3.1. To meet the continuous residence requirement,
the applicant must not have been outside the UK for
more than 180 days in any 12- month period (unless CR
3.2., CR 3.3., CR 5.1. or CR 5.2. applies, and subject to
CR 3.4.).
CR 3.2. For any absence from the UK with permission
granted under the rules in place before 11 January
2018, the applicant must not have been outside the UK
for more than 180 days during any consecutive 12month period, ending on the same date of their current
application unless CR 3.3 applies, and subject to CR
3.4.
CR 3.3. Subject to CR 3.4, where the application is
under Appendix Long Residence, the applicant must not
have:
(a) spent a total of more than 548 days outside the
UK during their qualifying period, where that 548-day
total was reached before 11 April 2024; and
(b) been outside the UK for more than 184 days at
any one time during their qualifying period, where
that absence started before 11 April 2024.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-continuous-residence

Page 3 of 9

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Continuous Residence - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:08 pm

CR 3.4. When calculating the period of absence in CR
3.1., CR 3.2. or CR 3.3., any period spent outside the
UK will not count where the absence was for any of the
following reasons:
(a) the applicant was assisting with a national or
international humanitarian or environmental crisis
overseas, providing, if on a sponsored route, their
sponsor agreed to the absence for that purpose; or
(b) travel disruption due to natural disaster, military
conflict or pandemic; or
(c) compelling and compassionate personal
circumstances, such as the life-threatening illness of
the applicant, or the life- threatening illness or death
of a close family member; or
(d) research activity undertaken by a Skilled Worker
which was approved by their sponsor and where the
applicant was sponsored for a job in one of the
following SOC 2020 occupation codes:
• 2111 Chemical scientists
• 2112 Biological scientists
• 2113 Biochemists and biomedical scientists
• 2114 Physical scientists
• 2115 Social and humanities scientists
• 2119 Natural and social science professionals
not elsewhere classified
• 2161 Research and development (R&D)
managers
• 2162 Other researchers, unspecified discipline
• 2311 Higher education teaching professionals;
or
(e) research activity undertaken by a person on the
Global Talent route who was endorsed by:
(i) The Royal Society; or
(ii) The British Academy; or
(iii) The Royal Academy of Engineering; or
(iv) UKRI; or
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-continuous-residence

Page 4 of 9

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Continuous Residence - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:08 pm

(f) research activity undertaken by a person on the
Global Talent route who qualified on the basis of a
prize listed in table 6 of Appendix Global Talent:
Prestigious Prizes; or
(g) for an applicant under Appendix Settlement
Family Life, absences for work, study or supporting
family overseas, so long as the family have
throughout the period of absence maintained a
family life in the UK and the UK remained their place
of permanent residence; or
(h) where the applicant’s partner is absent from the
UK on Crown service as:
(i) a regular member of HM Armed Forces (the
Royal Navy, the Royal Marines, the Army
(including the Brigade of Gurkhas) and the Royal
Air Force); or
(ii) an employee of the UK Government, a
Northern Ireland department, the Scottish
Administration or the Welsh Government; or
(iii) a permanent member of the British Council,
and the applicant accompanies them overseas.
CR 3.5. Provided that the applicant’s most recent grant
of permission was in the UK, any time the applicant has
spent lawfully in the Channel Islands or the Isle of Man
on a route equivalent to those permissible in the UK is
treated for the purpose of this Appendix as time spent in
the UK.
CR 3.6. For settlement applications under Appendix
Settlement Family Life, absence from the UK before 20
June 2022 will not be counted when calculating the total
absence period if the applicant was subsequently
granted permission as a partner or parent under
Appendix FM or under paragraph 276ADE or 276BE(2),
following those absences.
CR 3.7. Absence from the UK which began before 8
October 2024 will not be counted when calculating the
qualifying period for continuous residence for settlement
applications under Appendix HM Armed Forces.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-continuous-residence

Page 5 of 9

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Continuous Residence - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:08 pm

Breaking continuous residence
CR 4.1. An applicant’s continuous residence will be
broken if any of the following apply:
(a) the applicant is convicted of an offence and
sentenced to a period of imprisonment (unless it is a
suspended sentence) or directed to be detained in
an institution other than a prison, unless the
applicant is applying for settlement under Appendix
Settlement Family Life or Appendix Private Life (in
which case CR 4.4. applies); or
(b) the applicant is subject to a deportation order,
exclusion order or exclusion direction; or
(c) the applicant is subject to removal directions, or
in the case of an application under Appendix Long
Residence, is removed from the UK, under section
10 of the Immigration and Asylum Act 1999; or
(d) the applicant does not currently have, or did not
have, permission, unless:
(i) the applicant was granted permission
following a successful application where
Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability of these rules applied; or
(ii) (except for applications under Appendix Long
Residence), the applicant had permission when
they left the UK, applied for entry clearance
before that permission expired, or within 14 days
of that permission expiring, and that application
for entry clearance was successful; or
(iii) the application is under Appendix Long
Residence, and the applicant had permission
when they left the UK and returned to the UK
with a valid permission (on the same or another
route), provided they do not exceed the absence
limit in CR 3.1., CR 3.2. or CR 3.3.; or
(iv) for any period without permission before 24
November 2016, where the applicant made a
successful application for entry clearance or
permission (either in or outside the UK) within 28
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-continuous-residence

Page 6 of 9

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Continuous Residence - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:08 pm

days of the date their previous permission
expired; or
(v) the dates on which the applicant was in the
UK without permission were in the period from 1
to 31 August 2020 and the applicant had
permission immediately before then; or
(e) the applicant is absent from the UK for longer
than the periods permitted under CR 3.1., CR 3.2.,
and CR 3.3., and none of the exceptions in CR 3.4.,
CR 3.6., CR 5.1. and CR 5.2. apply; or
(f) the applicant is removed or deported from the UK;
or
(g) the applicant leaves the UK voluntarily having
been refused permission to enter, permission to stay
or settlement, and any permission held at the time of
that voluntary departure has expired, unless CR
4.1(d)(iv) applies.
CR 4.2. Where CR 4.1(d)(i) to (iv) applies, any period of
time where the applicant did not have permission will
not be included in any calculation of the qualifying
period in CR 1.1.
CR 4.3. Where CR 4.1.(d)(v) applies, that period of time
without permission is recognised as lawful presence and
will be included in any calculation of the qualifying
period in CR 1.1.
CR 4.4. Where a person applying for settlement under
Appendix Settlement Family Life or Appendix Private
Life has been:
(a) convicted of an offence and sentenced to
imprisonment in the UK for 12 months or less; or
(b) directed to be detained in an institution other
than a prison for 12 months or less,
that period of imprisonment or detention will not break
the applicant’s continuous residence during the 10-year
qualifying period for the purposes of SETF 2.3, SETF
11.3, PL 12.3., or PL 27.3, but the time spent in prison
or detained in an institution other than a prison will not
count towards the qualifying period for continuous
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-continuous-residence

Page 7 of 9

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Continuous Residence - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:08 pm

residence.

Continuous residence for dependants
CR 5.1. Where the applicant is applying as a partner or
child and was absent from the UK for a reason in CR
3.4., accompanying the person they are dependent on,
that period of absence will not count towards the 180day absence limit in CR 3.1. or CR 3.2. when calculating
the applicant’s qualifying period.
CR 5.2. Where the applicant is applying as a partner or
child and the person on whom they are dependent was
absent from the UK during a period of permission
granted before 11 January 2018, that period of absence
will not count towards the 180-day absence in CR 3.1.
or CR 3.2. when calculating the applicant’s qualifying
period if the person on whom they were dependent was
on one of the following routes:
(a) Tier 1; or
(b) Tier 2; or
(c) Tier 5 (Temporary Worker); or
(d) Global Talent; or
(e) Start Up; or
(f) Innovator Founder; or
(g) ECAA worker or ECAA business person.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-continuous-residence

Page 8 of 9

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Continuous Residence - Guidance - GOV.UK

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-continuous-residence

07/05/2026, 12:08 pm

© Crown copyright

Page 9 of 9

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Creative Worker Codes of Practice - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix Creative Worker
Codes of Practice
Where a person is applying under Appendix
Temporary Work – Creative Worker, as a
creative worker, operating in dance,
theatre, film and television, or as a model in
the fashion industry, their sponsor must
follow the relevant code of practice
specified below and comply with the other
requirements.
Ballet
Appropriate
salary rate

Payment must be commensurate with
industry standards set out at:
www.equity.org.uk

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-t5-creative-workers-codes-of-practice

Page 1 of 21

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Creative Worker Codes of Practice - Guidance - GOV.UK

Exemptions
from
advertising
for those
deemed to
be making
an additional
contribution
to the UK
labour
market

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

1. The dancer is required for continuity
The applicant has worked for a period of
one month or more during the past year
on the same production outside the UK
prior to coming to the UK. The “same
production” means one which is largely
the same in terms of direction and
design as the production outside the UK.
The sponsor must be able to supply
proof that the requirement is met,
e.g.contract of employment, press
cuttings, cast list.
2. The dancer has international status
The applicant is internationally famous
in their field. (This is different to being
well-known only in one country). The
sponsor must be able to supply proof
that this requirement is met, e.g. press
cuttings, awards, publicity material,
television/radio interviews, programmes.
3. The dancer is engaged by a unit
company
A unit company is a ballet company
which exists in a country outside the UK
and has put on at least one production
in that country. The sponsor must be
able to supply proof that this
requirement is met, e.g. press cuttings,
awards, publicity material,
television/radio interviews, programmes;
and proof that the applicant is engaged
by the unit company for the production
in the UK, e.g. contract of employment.
4. The dancer is recruited from a
specified school for a specified company
The applicant is recruited from:
(a) the English National Ballet School for
English National Ballet;
(b) the Royal Ballet School for the Royal
Ballet; or
(c) the Royal Ballet School or Elmhurst

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-t5-creative-workers-codes-of-practice

Page 2 of 21

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Creative Worker Codes of Practice - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

School for Dance for Birmingham Royal
Ballet.
The Sponsor must be able to supply
proof that, at the time of recruitment, the
applicant was or recently had been a
student at the school concerned, e.g. a
letter of confirmation from the school,
and proof that the applicant has been
engaged by the company concerned,
e.g. contract of employment, letter of
confirmation from the company.
Required
advertising
media for
other posts

At least one of:
• The Stage
• Dance Europe
• The Spotlight Link

Dancers (in
dance
forms other
than ballet)
Appropriate
salary rate

Payment must be commensurate with
industry standards set out at:
www.equity.org.uk

Exemptions
from
advertising
for those
deemed to
be making
an additional
contribution
to the UK
labour
market

1. The dancer is required for continuity
The applicant has worked for a period of
one month or more during the past year
on the same production outside the UK
prior to it coming to the UK. The “same
production” means one which is largely
the same in terms of direction and
design as the production outside the UK.
The sponsor must be able to supply
proof that the requirement is met, e.g.
contract of employment, press cuttings,
cast list.
2. The dancer has international status
The applicant is internationally famous
in their field. (This is different to being
well-known only in one country.)

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-t5-creative-workers-codes-of-practice

Page 3 of 21

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Creative Worker Codes of Practice - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

The sponsor must be able to supply
proof that the requirement is met, e.g.
press cuttings, awards, publicity
material, television/radio interviews,
programmes.
3. The dancer is engaged by a unit
company
A unit company is a dance company
which exists in a country outside the UK
and has put on at least one production
in that country. The sponsor must be
able to supply proof that the requirement
is met, e.g. contract of employment.
4. The dancer performs in a certain style
unlikely to be available in the UK
It would not be reasonable to expect the
sponsor to recruit in the UK because a
style is required which would be unlikely
to be available in the UK labour force.
The sponsor must be able to supply
proof that:
(a) a certain style is required; and
(b) the individual performs in that style,
e.g. press cuttings, awards, publicity
material, proof of training.
Required
advertising
media for
other posts
At least one
of:

Dance agencies
• The Stage
• Dance Europe
• Juice
• The Spotlight

Performers
in film and
television
Appropriate
salary rate

Payment must be at least at the level of
the appropriate UK market rates, which
can be obtained from Equity at
www.equity.org.uk.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-t5-creative-workers-codes-of-practice

Page 4 of 21

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Creative Worker Codes of Practice - Guidance - GOV.UK

Exemptions
from
advertising
for those
deemed to
be making
an additional
contribution
to the UK
labour
market

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

1. The work is for continuity
The sponsor must be able to supply
proof that the overseas national has
worked on, or will be working on the
same production overseas for at least
one month. Where a sponsor wishes to
issue a Certificate of Sponsorship for
reasons of continuity involving a
performer that has worked on the same
piece of work overseas for less than one
month, the Sponsor must notify Equity at
least 5 working days prior to the issuing
of the certificate with details of the
filming schedules. This is in order to
verify that the applicant is being
genuinely engaged for reasons of
continuity. Sponsors may issue
Certificates of Sponsorship for
performers to enter the UK to undertake
post-production work only and provided
that such post- production work solely
relates to their own role in the film or TV
production. For such Certificate of
Sponsorship, neither the one month
requirement nor prior notice to Equity
procedure applies.
The Sponsor must be able to supply
documentary proof that the performer
has worked on, or will be working on,
the same production outside the UK for
at least a month e.g. contracts, press
cuttings, cast lists, etc
2.The performer has international status
The sponsor must be able to provide
proof the applicant is known
internationally, or they have
demonstrable international box-office
appeal e.g. press cuttings, awards,
accolades, publicity material,
television/radio interviews, film and TV
credits; or documentary proof that the
performer has demonstrable

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-t5-creative-workers-codes-of-practice

Page 5 of 21

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Creative Worker Codes of Practice - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

international box-office appeal through
international box office figures for films
they have starred in or led as a principal
performer.
3. Highly specialist or unusual roles
For certain highly specialist or unusual
roles, it may not be possible or
reasonable to recruit from the UK
because the role requires specific or
specialist attributes, including but not
limited to: physical appearance; physical
talent and linguistic or vocal skills. In
such circumstances, where appropriate,
Sponsors should first attempt to conduct
searches in the UK as set out in
category 3 to a reasonable degree.
However, it is recognised that the extent
of such searches within the UK shall be
proportionate to the rarity and specialty
of the attributes of the role. The Sponsor
must be able to provide proof:
• that the role requires certain highly
specialist attributes; and
• that the performer possesses those
attributes; and
• of the casting process and casting
considerations; and
• of reasonable and appropriate
searches in the UK (if applicable); and
• a list of any UK candidates who were
unavailable at the required time.
4. Featured guest in an entertainment
programme, or subject of a factual
programme
The applicant must be a featured guest
on an entertainment programme or
subject of a factual programme. For
example, actors, comedians or other
performers booked to appear on a chat
show or a professional variety show, or
scheduled to be subject of an arts
programme or documentary. The
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-t5-creative-workers-codes-of-practice

Page 6 of 21

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Creative Worker Codes of Practice - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

sponsor must be able to provide:
• A formal letter from the broadcaster or
producer or copy of the relevant section
of the commissioning agreement
confirming the reason the migrant is
required (e.g. to feature in an
entertainment programme); and
• The name of the programme
concerned; and
• Details of any recording or filming
schedules.
5. Performers who are tied to the
finance of the production
The applicant must be necessary to a
production because the finance is
contingent on the particular performer
being cast in the film or TV production.
The sponsor must be able to provide a
formal letter of confirmation from the
production’s principal financier.
6. Performers who do not meet the key
criteria but who are commercially
important
The applicant must be commercially
important to the production. This may be
demonstrated by a formal letter in
support from a principal financier, or
distributor. The sponsor must give prior
notice to Equity providing supporting
evidence detailing: description of the
role and film, and the reasons why
advertising was not appropriate and a
letter in support. The sponsor must
provide Equity with:
• the details of the performer(s)required,
role, description of the production; and
• the reasons why the role has not been
advertised; and,
• a formal letter in support of the
applicant from a financier or distributor;
and
• if the performer is an up-and-coming
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-t5-creative-workers-codes-of-practice

Page 7 of 21

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Creative Worker Codes of Practice - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

performer, or cast to appeal to a
particular overseas audience, then
evidence of their CV, reviews, previous
work, awards/accolades, and/or
evidence of audience appeal would be
required.
7. International Co-productions
Sponsors issuing CoSs to performers
taking part in international coproductions structured under one of the
UK’s bilateral co- production treaties, or
under the European Convention on
Cinematographic Co-Production, need
to provide the following evidence:
• Provisional approval from the UK Film
Council certification department that the
film is being structured as an official coproduction; or
• Interim certification from the UK Film
Council Certification Department.

Required
advertising
media for
other posts

A resident labour search in accordance
with standard industry practice, which
will normally involve engagement of
casting agents within the EEA and
contacting performers’ agents, and may
include advertising on Equity’s job
information service

Additional
evidence
required for
stunt
performers

The sponsor must also demonstrate that
the applicant possesses the equivalent
qualifications, skills and competence to
UK industry standards. This may be
demonstrated by either
1) a reference in support from a UKbased expert with demonstrable
knowledge of the UK stunt industry; or
2) evidence of competence at a level
equivalent to UK industry

Performers
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-t5-creative-workers-codes-of-practice

Page 8 of 21

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Creative Worker Codes of Practice - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

in opera
Appropriate
salary rate

Payment should be at least at the level
of the appropriate UK market rates,
which can be obtained from
https://uktheatre.org/theatreindustry/rates-of-pay/

Exemptions
from
advertising
for those
deemed to
be making
an additional
contribution
to the UK
labour
market

1. The performer is required for
continuity
The applicant has worked or will work on
the same production outside the UK for
a period of one month or more. The
“same production” means one which is
largely the same in terms of direction
and design as the production outside the
UK. The sponsor must be able to
provide proof that the performer is
currently working, or has worked, or will
work on the same production outside the
UK and has done so, or did so, or will do
so for at least one month, e.g. contract
of employment, press cuttings, cast list.
2. The performer has international status
The applicant is internationally famous
in their field. (This is different to being
well-known only in one country.) The
sponsor must be able to provide proof
that the performer has international
status, e.g. press cuttings, awards,
publicity material, television/radio
interviews, programmes.
3. The performer is engaged by a unit
company
A unit company is an opera company
which exists in a country outside the UK
and has put on at least one production
in that country. The sponsor must be
able to provide proof that the company
has put on at least one production in its
home country, e.g. press cuttings,
awards, publicity material,

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-t5-creative-workers-codes-of-practice

Page 9 of 21

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Creative Worker Codes of Practice - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

television/radio interviews, programmes;
and proof that the individual is engaged
by the unit company for the production
in the UK, e.g. contract of employment.
4. The performer has a certain attribute
unlikely to be available in the UK
The role requires an attribute which
would be unlikely to be available in the
UK labour force, e.g. a certain physical
appearance, physical talent, or linguistic
or vocal skill. The sponsor must be able
to provide proof that
a) the role requires a certain attribute;
and
b) the individual has that attribute.
Required
advertising
media for
other posts

Where formal advertising is not the
standard industry practice for recruiting
for a role: a resident labour search in
accordance with standard industry
practice, which will normally involve
contacting performers’ agents, diary
services or casting agents.
Where formal advertising is usual for a
role, including chorus, trainee and/or
ensemble positions: the sponsor must
advertise the role to suitably qualified
resident workers for a period of at least
two weeks on the employer’s website
and at least one of the following industry
websites: Equity, YAP Tracker, Musical
Chairs, The Stage, Guardian Media,
Arts Jobs, The Voice, Opera Europa.

Performers
in theatre
Appropriate
salary rate

Payment should be commensurate with
industry standards set out at:
www.equity.org.uk

Exemptions

1. The performer is required for

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-t5-creative-workers-codes-of-practice

Page 10 of 21

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Creative Worker Codes of Practice - Guidance - GOV.UK

from
advertising
for those
deemed to
be making
an additional
contribution
to the UK
labour
market

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

continuity
The applicant has worked for a period of
one month or more during the past year,
on the same production outside the UK
prior to it coming to the UK. The “same
production” means one which is largely
the same in terms of direction and
design as the production outside the UK.
The sponsor must be able to provide
proof that the performer is currently
working, or has worked, on the same
production outside the UK and has done
so, or did so, for at least one month
during the past year, e.g. contract of
employment, press cuttings, cast list.
2. The performer has international status
The applicant is internationally famous
in their field. (This is different to being
well-known only in one country.) The
sponsor must be able to provide proof
that the performer has international
status, e.g. press cuttings, awards,
publicity material, television/radio
interviews, programmes.
3. The performer is engaged by a unit
company
A unit company is a theatre company
which exists in a country outside the UK
and has put on at least one production
in that country. The sponsor must be
able to provide proof that the company
has put on at least one production in its
home country, e.g. press cuttings,
awards, publicity material,
television/radio interviews, programmes;
and proof that the individual is engaged
by the unit company for the production
in the UK, e.g. contract of employment.
4. The performer has a certain attribute
unlikely to be available in the UK
The role requires an attribute which

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-t5-creative-workers-codes-of-practice

Page 11 of 21

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Creative Worker Codes of Practice - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

would be unlikely to be available in the
UK labour force, e.g. a certain physical
appearance, physical talent, or linguistic
or vocal skill. The sponsor must be able
to provide proof that
a) the role requires a certain attribute;
and
b) the individual has that attribute.
5. The performer is the subject of an
exchange under one of the UK theatre
industry’s exchange programmes
The applicant satisfies the requirements
of either of the exchange programmes
with the United States and Australia
operated by the theatre industry.
Sponsors wishing to use this category
must contact Equity in the first instance.
Required
advertising
media for
other posts

Where formal advertising is not the
standard industry practice for recruiting
for a role, a resident labour search in
accordance with standard industry
practice, which will normally involve
contacting casting directors.
Where formal advertising is usual for a
role, the sponsor must advertise the role
to suitably qualified resident workers for
a period of at least two weeks on at
least one of the following industry
websites: The Stage, Spotlight, Mandy,
or on social media.

Workers in
film and
television
Appropriate
salary rate

Payment of migrant workers in all cases
must not be below the UK market rates
found on the PACT and BECTU
websites at www.pact.co.uk and
www.bectu.org.uk.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-t5-creative-workers-codes-of-practice

Page 12 of 21

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Creative Worker Codes of Practice - Guidance - GOV.UK

Exemptions
from
advertising
for those
deemed to
be making
an additional
contribution
to the UK
labour
market

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

1. The worker is a Senior Creative
Grade
The applicant must possess the skills
and experience of a Senior Creative
Grade for the following roles:
• Producer
• Director
• Director of Photography
(Cinematographer)
• Production Designer
• Costumer Designer
• Hair/Make Up Supervisor
• Editor
• Composer
• Visual Effects Supervisor
• Sound Designer
• Script Writer
The sponsor must be able to provide
documentary proof that the worker has
the skills and experience in that role e.g.
film and TV credits, qualifications, CV,
press cuttings, awards, accolades,
publicity material, television/radio
interviews.
2. The worker is required for production
continuity
The applicant must be providing
significant creative input and have
worked on or will be working in a post
involving creative input on the same
piece of work overseas for at least one
month. The sponsor must demonstrate
that the applicant has a direct working
relationship with a Senior Creative
Grade as listed in Category 1. For
example, a first assistant editor might
work directly with an Editor on the same
piece of work overseas. No more than
one additional worker may be sponsored
in addition to a Senior Creative Grade,
other than in exceptional circumstances,
where there is a case based on

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-t5-creative-workers-codes-of-practice

Page 13 of 21

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Creative Worker Codes of Practice - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

production continuity. Sponsors must be
able to provide:
• Evidence that the role involves creative
input and the worker possesses the
skills and qualifications for the role, e.g.
copies of qualifications, CV, credits,
press cuttings, awards, accolades; and
• Evidence that the worker is currently,
or has worked on, or will be working on
the same production outside the UK for
at least a month and evidence of current
working relationship with a key Creative
grade in Category 1 i.e. contracts, letters
of engagement, casting lists, CV,
references in support, credits, press
cuttings; and
• In the circumstances where more than
one additional worker is sponsored, the
case must be set out in supporting
documentation from the Sponsor.
3. Other key creative workers
The applicant must be providing key
creative input and have a significant
previous working relationship with a
Senior Creative Grade as listed in
Category 1. A “significant” previous
working relationship entails an
established pattern of joint working on a
number of previous productions rather
than isolated or random examples. No
more than one additional worker may be
sponsored in addition to a Senior
Creative Grade, other than in
exceptional circumstances, where there
is a creative case.
The Home Office will notify BECTU
promptly of the issuing of certificates of
sponsorship for camera, editing and grip
grades, and 1st Assistant Directors and
BECTU may request sight of the
evidence in support for such grades.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-t5-creative-workers-codes-of-practice

Page 14 of 21

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Creative Worker Codes of Practice - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

The Home Office will notify the
Production Guild promptly of the issuing
of certificates of sponsorship for the
following grades: Executive Producer
(when providing the functions of a Line
Producer or Financial
Controller/Production Accountant), Line
Producer, Co-Producer, 1st Assistant
Director, Unit Production Manager,
Production Supervisor, Financial
Controller, Production Accountant and
the Production Guild may request sight
of the evidence in support for such roles.
Sponsors must be able to provide:
• Evidence that the applicant is in a
creative or technical role and possesses
the skills and qualifications for the role,
e.g. copies of qualifications, CV, credits,
press cuttings, awards, accolades etc;
and
• Evidence of the applicant’s previous
working relationship with a key Creative
Grade in category 1. e.g. CV, references
in support, credits, press cuttings; and
• In the circumstances where more than
one additional worker is sponsored per
Department head, the case must be set
out in a supporting documentation from
the Sponsor.
4. The role is highly specialist, where
advertising is demonstrably not
appropriate
For certain highly specialist roles, it
would not be reasonable to expect an
employer to undertake a resident labour
market search. One example would be a
role which requires particular attributes
considered unlikely to be available from
the resident labour force, for example
where the role involves the application
of highly specialist skills or new
technology or proprietary technology or
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-t5-creative-workers-codes-of-practice

Page 15 of 21

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Creative Worker Codes of Practice - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

special effect, or unique knowledge. The
Sponsor must be able to provide
documentary proof that it would not be
reasonable to expect the sponsor to
undertake a resident labour market
search e.g. in relation to the above
example, proof that the role requires
certain highly specialised skills e.g. job
description; and that the applicant
possesses those skills e.g.
qualifications, CV, credits. For all roles
under this category, the Home Office will
notify BECTU promptly of the issuing of
certificates of sponsorship and BECTU
may request sight of the evidence in
support for such grades.
5.International Co-productions
Sponsors issuing certificates of
sponsorship to workers taking part in
international co-productions structured
under one of the UK’s bilateral coproduction treaties, or under the
European Convention on
Cinematographic Co-Production, need
to provide the following evidence:
• Provisional approval from the UK Film
Council certification department that the
film is being structured as an official coproduction; or
• Interim certification from the UK Film
Council Certification Department.

Required
advertising
media for
other posts

• For roles where formal advertising is
not the usual industry practice for
recruiting for a particular role:
For these roles, the sponsor must carry
out suitable and reasonable searches of
the resident labour market, such as
contacting agents, organisations, diary
services or semi-formal worker
networks.
Where such informal recruitment

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-t5-creative-workers-codes-of-practice

Page 16 of 21

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Creative Worker Codes of Practice - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

methods are used, the sponsor must
demonstrate a reasonable period within
which it has searched the resident
labour market, this should be for a least
a period of two weeks.
• Where formal advertising is usual for a
role:
For these roles, the sponsor must
advertise the role to suitably qualified
resident workers in an appropriate
journal, newspaper, website or online
directory. The choice of advertising
medium should be appropriate for the
particular role. The following advertising
media may be appropriate: searching
relevant online directories such as the
Knowledge Online, Production Base, or
through industry organisations such as
the Production Guild. Other forms of
advertising may be appropriate
depending on the type of role. For
longer terms contracts, advertisements
in Guardian Media, Broadcast, Screen
International, Marketing Week would be
appropriate.
Under this category, in the case of
camera, editing and grip grades, and 1st
Assistant Directors, the Home Office
shall promptly notify BECTU of the
issuing of certificates of sponsorship and
BECTU may request sight of the
evidence of the steps to search for
resident labour for these roles.
Under this category, in the case of
Executive Producer (when providing the
functions of a Line Producer or Financial
Controller/Production Accountant) Line
Producer, Co-Producer, 1st Assistant
Director, Unit Production Manager,
Production Supervisor, Financial
Controller, Production Accountant
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-t5-creative-workers-codes-of-practice

Page 17 of 21

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Creative Worker Codes of Practice - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

grades, the Home Office will promptly
notify the Production Guild of the issuing
of a certificate of sponsorship and the
Production Guild may request sight of
the evidence in support for such roles.
Additional
evidence
required for
Personal
Assistants to
Directors
and
Producers of
international
status

Sponsors may issue a Certificate of
Sponsorship to a single, non-technical,
non-creative personal assistant who
supports a Director or Producer under
category 1, who has demonstrable
international status i.e. are known
worldwide for international box office
success.
The Sponsor must notify BECTU
promptly of the issuing of a certificate
under this category for a PA to a Director
and must notify the Production Guild
promptly of the issuing of a certificate for
a PA to a Producer. They may request
sight of the evidence in support for such
roles. Sponsors issuing certificates to
applicants under this category must be
able to supply proof that:
• the applicant has a significant previous
working relationship with the Director or
Producer (a “significant” previous
working relationship entails an
established pattern of joint working on a
number of previous productions rather
than isolated or random examples); and
• the migrant works only as a personal
assistant to the Director/Producer and
does not undertake creative or technical
duties; and
• the Director or Producer is of
international status i.e. known
worldwide, or they have demonstrable
box-office appeal worldwide.
• the worker has the skills and
experience in that role e.g. a reference
in support from the Director or Producer,

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-t5-creative-workers-codes-of-practice

Page 18 of 21

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Creative Worker Codes of Practice - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

film and TV credits, qualifications, and
CV
• the Director or Producer has
international status e.g. press cuttings,
awards, accolades, publicity material,
television/radio interviews, film and TV
credits; or, documentary proof that they
have demonstrable worldwide box-office
appeal through box office figures for
films they have led.
Models in
the fashion
industry
Appropriate
salary rate

Payments should be commensurate with
industry standards and comply with the
National Minimum Wage rate to which
they are entitled by the law in force at
the relevant time.

Exemptions
from
advertising
for those
deemed to
be making
an additional
contribution
to the UK
labour
market

1 Top models
These are people who are recognised
not just as models but may, also, be
personalities in their own right. They are
high earners and, for the most part, will
come to the UK with pre-booked work. A
sponsor must be able to supply
evidence that the model has
international status, e.g. publications,
publicity materials, press engagements,
relevant social media presence.
2 Commercial models
These are those models who have
sufficient a level of experience that they
are already established, if not in the UK,
certainly in their own or other markets.
They may already be known to UK
clients or will certainly have been premarketed, however, photographs alone
are not sufficient, except for models

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-t5-creative-workers-codes-of-practice

Page 19 of 21

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Creative Worker Codes of Practice - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

flying in for a particular job. Sponsors
issuing a CoS must be able provide the
following evidence:
i. Evidence of previous engagements or
of commercial
status in the UK, and/or
ii. Evidence of working in markets other
than the UK
3 The model is required for continuity
The model has worked for the same
client, within the past two years, prior to
coming to the UK. The sponsor must be
able to provide evidence, e.g.
confirmation of past and intended
bookings.
4 New faces
Will have experience but may be entirely
new to the UK market, or on a second or
third visit. The New Face Model will
have shown considerable promise and,
being the ‘latest’ face, are likely be much
sought after, particularly by
photographers and print or digital media
alike. Models must meet 65% of the
eligibility criteria for the Modelling
Industry, as endorsed by the British
Fashion Council. Sponsors must be able
to provide evidence of which criteria are
met.
Required
endorsement
for those
falling
outside the
above
criteria

A British Fashion Council approved
panel will be put in place to endorse
specific models with real potential that
are unable to fulfil the required four
criteria, which is most likely to occur
within the New Faces category.
Applications will still be required to be
scored against the criteria and the
supporting documents submitted to the

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-t5-creative-workers-codes-of-practice

Page 20 of 21

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Creative Worker Codes of Practice - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

Panel to enable them to make a
decision.
Sponsors must be able to demonstrate
panel approval when issuing CoS.

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-t5-creative-workers-codes-of-practice

© Crown copyright

Page 21 of 21

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Domestic Worker Statement - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:49 am

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix Domestic
Worker Statement
Appendix Domestic Worker Statement
Two copies of this form must be completed and
signed by the employer and the worker and
submitted with the entry clearance application or
with the permission to stay application as required
by ODW 5.4, DW 3.4 and Appendix Temporary Work
– International Agreement of the Immigration Rules.
Name & address of Employee
[insert details]
Name & address of Employer
[insert details]

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-domestic-worker-statement

Page 1 of 11

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Domestic Worker Statement - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:49 am

Commencement of Employment & Termination
[If for an indefinite term]
[The Employee’s employment with the Employer
commence[s OR d] on [insert date], and will continue
unless or until terminated in accordance with the
provisions of this agreement.]
[If for a fixed term]
[The Employee’s employment with the Employer shall
[commence OR be deemed to have commenced] on
[insert date] and shall continue, subject to the remaining
terms of this agreement, until it terminates on [insert
date] without the need for notice unless previously
terminated by either party giving the other not less than
[insert number*] weeks/months’ notice in writing.]
* Note: the notice to be given by the Employer must not
be less than the statutory minimum period of notice to
be given by employers, which is as follows:
during the first two years’ continuous employment, one
week’s notice; and
after that, one additional week for each year of service,
up to a maximum of twelve weeks’ notice.
No employment with a previous employer counts as part
of a period of continuous employment. OR
The Employee’s employment with [insert name of
previous employer] forms part of a continuous period of
employment which began on [insert date].
Job Title
The Employee is employed as [insert job title] and their
duties are set out below:
[insert Employee’s duties]
Status of employment
The Employer declares that the employee is not an au
pair and terms of employment do not fall within the
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-domestic-worker-statement

Page 2 of 11

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Domestic Worker Statement - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:49 am

definition of paragraph 57 of the National Minimum
Wage Regulations 2015 (as amended from time to
time).
Note: Paragraph 57 of the National Minimum Wage
Regulations 2015 provides an exemption from the
national minimum wage for employees who are treated
as members of the employer’s family.
The UK’s Immigration Rules require that you must
declare that the person accompanying you as a
domestic worker is an employee and the work they will
carry out does not fall under this part of the Regulations.
This means that you must pay them at least the national
minimum wage while they’re working for you in the UK.
Employee’s Place of Work
The Employee’s place of work is [insert location].
[If this is where the Employer resides, then the following
information should be provided]:
Total number of rooms;
Total number of bedrooms;
The names and ages of all household members and
domestic staff (adults and minors) residing in the house.
[If the Employee’s place of work is different to the
Employer’s residence, the Employer is to provide an
explanation, including details of where the Employee will
be working and who lives at that address]
Employee’s Hours of Work
The Employee’s normal hours of work are [insert
number] hours per week, to be worked during the hours
of [insert time] to [insert time] on [insert days] with a
daily [paid OR unpaid] lunch break of [insert amount].
[The Employee is not required to work overtime]
OR
[The Employee is required to be available to work
overtime, whenever needed by the Employer at
weekends, on public holidays or at other times outside
their normal hours of work.]
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-domestic-worker-statement

Page 3 of 11

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Domestic Worker Statement - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:49 am

OR
[The Employee may, if they wish, make themselves
available to work overtime outside their normal hours of
work.]
OR
[The Employee may be required to work overtime if and
when the Employer deems it to be necessary.]
[If the Employee works overtime, then complete the
following paragraph]
[The Employee’s entitlement to pay for working overtime
is as follows:
[insert details of overtime pay]
Pay
The Employee’s [salary is OR wages are] £[enter figure]
per [hour OR week OR month OR year] payable to the
Employee at [weekly OR monthly] intervals in arrears
on[or about] the [insert day i.e. Friday OR last working
day OR insert date i.e. 25th] of each [week OR month].
The Employer agrees that the salary OR wages meet
the requirements of the National Minimum Wage Act
1998 and any Regulations made under it, and that they
will continue to meet such requirements throughout the
period of employment.
Holiday
The Employee will be entitled to [enter number –under
the Working Time Regulations 1998, this must be at
least 20 days for full – time employees, pro rata for part
– time employees] days’ paid holiday in each holiday
year, which runs from [enter date, e.g. 1 January] to
[enter date, e.g. 31 December], in addition to bank and
public holidays. If the Employee’s employment starts or
finishes part way through the holiday year, their holiday
entitlement during that year shall be calculated on a prorata basis.
The Employee must take all of their entitlement in the
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-domestic-worker-statement

Page 4 of 11

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Domestic Worker Statement - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:49 am

holiday year in which it accrues and carrying forward
holiday is not permitted unless [either agreed in
advance by the Employer or where] the law allows
holiday to be carried forward.
On the termination of the Employee’s employment, they
will be paid in lieu of accrued but untaken holiday
entitlement. The Employee will be required to pay the
Employer for holiday taken in excess of their accrued
entitlement on termination.
Sickness
If the Employee is absent from work for any reason,
they, or someone on their behalf, must inform the
Employer by no later than [insert time] on the first day of
absence. On the Employee’s return to work, they will be
required to complete a self-certification form, which they
should complete, sign and return within [insert number
e.g. two days] of their return to work. If the Employee’s
absence from work is due to sickness or injury and
continues for a period exceeding seven consecutive
days, they should provide the Employer with a
Statement of Fitness for Work (‘fit note’) from their
doctor as soon as possible after the seventh day of
absence and weekly after that.
[[IF sick pay:] In the event of absence from work due to
illness or injury, the Employee will be eligible to receive
an amount equivalent to their salary OR wages for the
first [insert number] weeks of absence. Such payments
will include any entitlement to any statutory sick pay due
in accordance with applicable legislation in force at the
time of the absence.
OR
[If Statutory Sick Pay only:]There is no pay for any
absence due to illness or injury, other than statutory sick
pay if the Employee is eligible. For the purpose of
statutory sick pay, the Employee’s ’qualifying days’ are
[insert the [Employee’s normal working days]].
Recruitment, transportation, and other fees
The Employer shall not recoup from the Employee,
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-domestic-worker-statement

Page 5 of 11

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Domestic Worker Statement - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:49 am

through payroll deductions or any other means, the fees
they have paid to a third party recruiter or recruitment
agency, or their authorised representative(s) for services
related to hiring and retaining the Employee.
The Employer agrees to pay the Employee’s
transportation costs for the journey from their place of
current residence to the place of work in the United
Kingdom, namely from ______(country of current
residence) to ____(place of work in United Kingdom)
as well as the return journey from ____(place of
work in United Kingdom) to ______(country of current
residence).
The Employer agrees to pay in advance on behalf of the
Employee any visa application fees and any other fees
(including any immigration health surcharge) that may
be payable by the Employee in order to obtain a visa to
travel to the United Kingdom with their Employer or to
join the Employer in the UK.
It is the Employer’s obligation and responsibility to pay
for the transportation costs, any visa application fees
and any other fees (including any immigration health
surcharge) that may be payable by the Employee in
order to obtain a visa to travel to the United Kingdom
with their Employer or to join the Employer in the UK,
and such costs and fees cannot be passed on to the
Employee through payroll deductions or any other
means (for example, the Employee must not pay the
transportation or the visa fees on behalf of the Employer
to be reimbursed at a later date). Under no
circumstances are transportation costs or the fees
described above recoverable by the Employer from the
Employee.
Accommodation
The Employer shall provide the Employee with suitable
furnished accommodation for their exclusive use.
Suitable accommodation is housing or a hotel room that
meets UK building requirements and health and safety
standards. This includes a private unit or a room with a
lock and which therein provides living and sleeping
facilities intended for human habitation with no visible or
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-domestic-worker-statement

Page 6 of 11

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Domestic Worker Statement - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:49 am

structural repairs required.
The Employer agrees to provide the Employee with
[meals] [delete if not applicable], [and] an adequate,
properly heated, and ventilated room with natural light.
The door of the room shall be equipped with a lock and
a safety bolt from within the room and the Employee will
be provided with the corresponding key.
The Employer shall provide the Employee with
independent access to the residence (for example,
house keys, security code) where the Employee
resides.
The Employer agrees to provide the Employee with
(check if applicable):
Private bathroom
Telephone (charge of £ per month or no charge except
for long-distance calls)
Radio (in their room)
Television (in their room)
Internet access ( charge of £ per month or no charge)
Other, specify:
[Description of Employee’s room and furnishings]
Healthcare
Either:
“1. The Employer agrees to provide comprehensive
sickness insurance cover for the Employee in the United
Kingdom at no cost to the Employee.
2. The Employer agrees not to deduct money from the
Employee’s salary OR wages for this purpose.
3. The Employer undertakes to ensure that the
Employee has free access to medical treatment as the
Employee requires.”
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-domestic-worker-statement

Page 7 of 11

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Domestic Worker Statement - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:49 am

or, if the Employee has remained (or will remain as a
result of their application for entry clearance or
permission to stay being granted) in the UK as either a
domestic worker in a private household or a private
servant in a diplomatic household for a period
exceeding 6 months:
“1. The Employer agrees not to deduct money from the
Employee’s salary OR wages for the purpose of
meeting the cost of comprehensive sickness insurance
cover.
2. The Employer undertakes to ensure that the
Employee has free access to medical treatment as the
Employee requires.
Passport
The Employer agrees that the Employee will retain
custody of their passport at all times other than when it
is required by a third party for official purposes such as
applying for a visa.
Termination and Notice Period
[To only be used when the employment is for an
indefinite term]
The prior written notice required by the Employee to
terminate their employment shall be as follows:
[insert details]
The prior written notice required by the Employer to
terminate the Employee’s employment shall be as
follows:
[insert details]
Note: this must not be less than the statutory minimum
period of notice to be given by employers, which is as
follows:
during the first two years’ continuous employment, one
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-domestic-worker-statement

Page 8 of 11

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Domestic Worker Statement - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:49 am

week’s notice; and
after that, one additional week for each year of service,
up to a maximum of twelve weeks’ notice.
Grievances and Disciplinary Rules and Procedure
If the Employee has a grievance regarding their
employment, they should in the first instance speak to
their Employer. If the grievance is not then resolved to
the Employee’s satisfaction, the Employee should refer
to the grievance procedure, which may be obtained from
the Employer.
The disciplinary rules and procedure applicable to the
Employee are [attached OR to be found in [specify
place]]. If the Employee is dissatisfied with any
disciplinary decision taken in relation to them, they
should refer to the disciplinary procedure, which may be
obtained from the Employer. Note: the Employer’s
grievance procedure and disciplinary rules and
procedure must comply with the ACAS statutory Code
of Practice on discipline and grievance.
Pensions
[The Employee is entitled to become a member of the
[insert name] Pension Scheme, or such other registered
pension scheme as has been set up by the Employer,
subject to satisfying certain eligibility criteria and subject
to the rules of such scheme as amended from time to
time. Full details of the scheme are available from the
Employer.
OR
[There is no pension scheme in force in relation to the
Employee’s employment.]
A contracting-out certificate is [not] in force in respect of
the Employee’s employment.
Governing Law & Jurisdiction
This agreement and any dispute or claim arising out of
or in connection with it or its subject matter or formation
(including non-contractual disputes or claims) shall be
governed by and construed in accordance with the law
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-domestic-worker-statement

Page 9 of 11

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Domestic Worker Statement - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:49 am

of England and Wales.
Each party irrevocably agrees that the courts of England
and Wales shall have exclusive jurisdiction to settle any
dispute or claim arising out of or in connection with this
agreement or its subject matter or formation (including
non-contractual disputes or claims).
Signature of Employer
I accept the terms and conditions of this employment
contract.
Given name as stated on passport (print):
Surname as stated on passport (print):
Employer’s Signature:
Date (DD/MM/YYYY):
Signature of Employee
I accept the terms and conditions of this employment
contract.
Given name as stated on passport (print):
Surname as stated on passport (print):
EMPLOYEE’S Signature:
Date (DD/MM/YYYY)

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-domestic-worker-statement

Page 10 of 11

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Domestic Worker Statement - Guidance - GOV.UK

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-domestic-worker-statement

07/05/2026, 11:49 am

© Crown copyright

Page 11 of 11

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Domestic Worker who is a Victim of Modern Slavery - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:47 am

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix Domestic Worker
who is a Victim of Modern Slavery
Appendix Domestic Worker who is a Victim
of Modern Slavery
This route is for a victim of modern slavery who entered
the UK as an Overseas Domestic Worker, a Domestic
Worker in a Private Household, or as a private servant
in a diplomatic household, having held entry clearance
in the Temporary Work – International Agreement
category.
The maximum period of grant on this route is 2 years.
This is not a route to settlement.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-domestic-worker-who-is-a-victim-of-modern-slavery

Page 1 of 5

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Domestic Worker who is a Victim of Modern Slavery - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:47 am

Validity requirements for a Domestic
Worker who is a Victim of Modern
Slavery
DWMS 1.1. A person applying for permission to stay as
a Domestic Worker who is a Victim of Modern Slavery
must apply on the gov.uk website on the specified form
FLR(IR).
DWMS 1.2. An application for permission to stay as a
Domestic Worker who is a victim of Modern Slavery
must meet all the following requirements:
(a) the applicant must be in the UK on the date of
application; and
(b) any fees must have been paid; and
(c) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(d) the applicant must have provided a valid
passport or other document which satisfactorily
establishes their identity and nationality.
DWMS 1.3 An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for a Domestic Worker who is a
victim of modern slavery may be rejected as invalid and
not considered.

Suitability requirements for Domestic
Worker who is a Victim of Modern
Slavery
DWMS 2.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
DWMS 2.2. Any relevant period of overstaying to which
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part Suitability
applies will be disregarded.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-domestic-worker-who-is-a-victim-of-modern-slavery

Page 2 of 5

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Domestic Worker who is a Victim of Modern Slavery - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:47 am

Eligibility requirements for Domestic
Workers who is a Victim of Modern
Slavery
DWMS 3.1. A person applying for permission to stay as
a Domestic Worker who is a Victim of Modern Slavery
must have, or have last been granted, permission on
one of the following routes:
(a) Overseas Domestic Worker; or
(b) Temporary Work – International Agreement, as a
private servant in a diplomatic household; or
(c) Domestic Worker in a Private Household
(d) outside these Rules having been referred into the
National Referral Mechanism (NRM) and be in
receipt of a positive Conclusive Grounds (CG)
decision.
DWMS 3.2. The applicant must have been referred into
the National Referral Mechanism and be in receipt of a
positive Conclusive Grounds decision.
DWMS 3.3. The application:
(a) must have been made within 28 days of the
applicant being notified of the decision at DWMS
3.2.; or
(b) where the applicant has an outstanding
application for permission to stay (or a grant of leave
is being considered) on the date that the decision at
DWMS 3.2. is notified to the applicant, the
application for permission to stay as a Domestic
Worker who is a Victim of Modern Slavery must be
made within 28 days of the applicant being notified
of the outcome of that application or consideration;
or
(c) if the applicant is a person who falls within
DWMS 3.1(d), must be made before the applicant’s
current permission ends.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-domestic-worker-who-is-a-victim-of-modern-slavery

Page 3 of 5

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Domestic Worker who is a Victim of Modern Slavery - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:47 am

Decision on an application as a
Domestic Worker who is a Victim of
Modern Slavery
DWMS 4.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all of
the suitability and eligibility requirements are met the
application will be granted, otherwise the application will
be refused.
DWMS 4.2. If the application is refused, the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.

Period of grant for a Domestic Worker
who is a Victim of Modern Slavery
DWMS 5.1. The applicant will be granted permission to
stay for whichever is the shorter of:
(a) two years; or
(b) where the applicant already holds permission to
stay outside the Rules, having been referred into the
National Referral Mechanism and in receipt of a
positive Conclusive Grounds decision, permission
will be granted for a period which ensures that the
total, combined, duration of permission will not
exceed 2 years.
Conditions of grant for a Domestic Worker who is a
Victim of Modern Slavery
DWMS 5.2. The grant will be subject to the following
conditions:
(a) no access to public funds; and
(b) work is permitted as:
(i) a domestic worker in a private household; or
(ii) as a private servant in a diplomatic household
working only in the household of the employer
recorded in a Certificate of Sponsorship in the
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-domestic-worker-who-is-a-victim-of-modern-slavery

Page 4 of 5

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Domestic Worker who is a Victim of Modern Slavery - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:47 am

Temporary Work - International Agreement
category; and
(c) supplementary employment is permitted, only as
a domestic worker in a private household; and
(d) study is permitted, subject to the ATAS condition
in Appendix ATAS.

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-domestic-worker-who-is-a-victim-of-modern-slavery

© Crown copyright

Page 5 of 5

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Domestic Workers in a Private Household - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:47 am

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix Domestic
Workers in a Private Household
Immigration Rules Appendix Domestic
Workers in a Private Household
This route is for a domestic worker in a private
household, who first entered the UK under the Rules in
place before 6 April 2012 and wishes to extend their
permission to stay.
The applicant must be in the UK.
This is a route to settlement.
Dependants are permitted on this route.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-domestic-workers-in-a-private-household

Page 1 of 17

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Domestic Workers in a Private Household - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:47 am

Validity requirements for Domestic
Worker in a Private Household
DW 1.1. A person applying for permission to stay as a
Domestic Worker in a Private Household must apply on
the gov.uk website on the specified form FLR(IR).
DW 1.2. An application for permission to stay as a
Domestic Worker in a Private Household must meet all
the following requirements:
(a) the applicant must be in the UK on the date of
application; and
(b) any fee and Immigration Health Charge must
have been paid; and
(c) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(d) the applicant must have provided a valid
passport or other travel document which
satisfactorily establishes their identity and
nationality.
DW 1.2A. The applicant must have entered the UK with
valid entry clearance as a Domestic Worker in a Private
Household under the rules in place before 6 April 2012
and have held permission to stay as a Domestic Worker
in a Private Household since they entered on this route.
DW 1.3. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for a Domestic Worker in a Private
Household may be rejected as invalid and not
considered.

Suitability requirements for a Domestic
Worker in a Private Household
DW 2.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
DW 2.2. The applicant must not be in the UK in breach
of immigration laws except that, where the Exceptions
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-domestic-workers-in-a-private-household

Page 2 of 17

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Domestic Workers in a Private Household - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:47 am

for overstayers section of Part Suitability applies, any
current period of overstaying will be disregarded.

Eligibility requirements for a Domestic
Worker in a Private Household
DW 3.1. DELETED.
DW 3.2 DELETED.
DW 3.3. The applicant must be employed for at least 30
hours per week in a private household under the same
roof as the employer or in the same household as the
employer for the duration of their employment.
DW 3.4. The applicant must have agreed in writing, the
terms and conditions of their employment in the UK and
must provide evidence, in the form set out in Appendix
Domestic Worker Statement, which must be fully
completed and signed by both parties.
DW 3.5. The decision maker must be satisfied that the
applicant’s conditions of employment mean that they will
be paid at least the UK National Minimum Wage
throughout their employment in the UK.
DW 3.6. The applicant must not intend to take any form
of employment except as a Domestic Worker in a
Private Household.

Financial requirement for Domestic
Worker in a Private Household
DW 4.1. The decision maker must be satisfied that the
applicant can and will adequately maintain and
accommodate themselves, and any dependants in the
UK or applying for entry clearance, without recourse to
public funds.
DW 4.2. Funds must be shown as specified in Appendix
Finance.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-domestic-workers-in-a-private-household

Page 3 of 17

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Domestic Workers in a Private Household - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:47 am

Decision on an application as a
Domestic Worker in a Private Household
DW 5.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all of the
suitability and eligibility requirements for permission to
stay as a Domestic Worker in a Private Household are
met the application will be granted, otherwise the
application will be refused.
DW 5.2. If the application is refused, the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.
Period of grant for a Domestic Worker in a Private
Household
DW 6.1 The applicant will be granted permission to stay
for 12 months.
DW 6.2. Where the application is decided before the
current permission expires, the extension of stay
granted may be for a period of 12 months plus the time
remaining before the current permission expires (for
example, if the application is decided on March 31st and
the current permission does not expire until April 30th,
an additional period of one month will be granted).
Conditions of grant for a Domestic Worker in a
Private Household
DW 6.3 The grant will be subject to the following
conditions:
(a) no access to public funds; and
(b) no work except as a domestic worker in a private
household; and
(c) study is permitted, subject to the ATAS condition
in Appendix ATAS.
DW 6.4. The applicant is permitted to change employer,
without notifying the Home Office, within the validity of
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-domestic-workers-in-a-private-household

Page 4 of 17

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Domestic Workers in a Private Household - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:47 am

their permission as a Domestic Worker in a Private
Household.

Settlement for a Domestic Worker in a
Private Household
Validity requirements for settlement as a Domestic
Worker in a Private Household
DW 7.1. A person applying for settlement as a Domestic
Worker in a Private Household must apply on the gov.uk
website on the specified form “Settle in the UK in
various immigration categories: form SET(O)”.
DW 7.2. An application for settlement as a Domestic
Worker in a Private Household must meet all the
following requirements:
(a) any fee must have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other travel document which satisfactorily
establishes their identity and nationality; and
(d) the applicant must be in the UK on the date of
application.
DW 7.3. The applicant must have, or have last been
granted, permission as a Domestic Worker in a Private
Household.
DW 7.4. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for settlement as a Domestic
Worker in a Private Household may be rejected as
invalid and not considered.
Suitability requirements for settlement as a
Domestic Worker in a Private Household
DW 8.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-domestic-workers-in-a-private-household

Page 5 of 17

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Domestic Workers in a Private Household - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:47 am

DW 8.2. The applicant must not be in breach of
immigration laws, except that where the Exceptions for
overstayers section of Part Suitability applies, that
period of overstaying will be disregarded.
Eligibility requirements for settlement as a Domestic
Worker in a Private Household
Qualifying period for settlement as a Domestic
Worker in a Private Household
DW 9.1. The applicant must have entered the UK with a
valid entry clearance as a Domestic Worker in a Private
Household under the Rules in place before 6 April 2012.
DW 9.2. The applicant must have spent a continuous
period of 5 years lawfully in the UK as a Domestic
Worker in a Private Household under the Rules in place
before 6 April 2012.
DW 9.3 The applicant must not have worked in the UK
except as a Domestic Worker in a Private Household.
DW 9.4. The applicant must continue to be required by
their employer for employment as a Domestic Worker in
a Private Household.
Continuous residence requirement for settlement as
a Domestic Worker in a Private Household
DW 10.1. The applicant must meet the continuous
residence requirement as specified in Appendix
Continuous residence during the qualifying period in DW
9.2.
English language requirement for settlement as a
Domestic Worker in a Private Household
DW 11.1. Unless an exemption applies, the applicant
must show English language ability on the Common
European Framework of Reference for Languages in
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-domestic-workers-in-a-private-household

Page 6 of 17

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Domestic Workers in a Private Household - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:47 am

speaking and listening to at least level B1.
DW 11.2. The applicant must show they meet the
English language requirement as specified in Appendix
English Language.
Knowledge of life in the UK requirement for
settlement as a Domestic Worker in a Private
Household
DW 12.1. The applicant must meet the Knowledge of
Life in the UK requirement as specified in Appendix KOL
UK.
Decision on an application for settlement as a
Domestic Worker in a Private Household
DW 13.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all the
suitability and eligibility requirements for settlement as a
Domestic Worker in a Private Household are met, the
applicant will be granted settlement, otherwise the
application will be refused.
DW 13.2. If the application is refused, the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.

Dependants of a Domestic Worker in a
Private Household
Validity requirements for a dependant partner or
dependant child of a Domestic Worker in a Private
Household route
DW 14.1. A person applying for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a dependant partner or dependant
child of a Domestic Worker in a Private Household must
apply on gov.uk on the specified form Application to
extend stay in the UK: FLR (IR).
DW 14.2. An application for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a partner or child of a Domestic
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-domestic-workers-in-a-private-household

Page 7 of 17

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Domestic Workers in a Private Household - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:47 am

Worker in a Private Household must meet all the
following requirements:
(a) any fee and Immigration Health Charge must
have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other travel document which satisfactorily
establishes their identity and nationality; and
(d) the applicant must be applying as a partner or
child of a person (P) who:
(i) has made a valid application for permission to
stay in the UK as a Domestic Worker in a Private
Household that has not been decided; or
(ii) has entry clearance or permission to stay as
Domestic Worker in a Private Household; or
(iii) is settled or has become a British citizen,
providing that P had permission as a Domestic
Worker in a Private Household when they settled
and the applicant either had permission as their
partner or child at that time or the applicant is
applying as a child of P and the applicant was
born in the UK before P settled.
DW 14.3. If the applicant is applying as a dependant
partner, they must be aged 18 or over on the date of
application.
DW 14.4. If applying for permission to stay, the applicant
must be in the UK on the date of application.
DW 14.4A. If applying for permission to stay, the
applicant must not have, or have last been granted,
permission:
(a) as a Visitor; or
(b) as a Short-term Student.
DW 14.5. An application which does not meet all of the
validity requirements for a partner or child of a Domestic
Worker in a Private Household may be rejected as
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-domestic-workers-in-a-private-household

Page 8 of 17

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Domestic Workers in a Private Household - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:47 am

invalid and not considered.
Suitability requirements for a dependant partner or
dependent child on the Domestic Worker in a
Private Household route.
DW 15.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
DW 15.2. If applying for permission to stay the applicant
must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.
Eligibility requirements for a dependant partner or
dependant child of a Domestic Worker in a Private
Household
Entry requirements for a dependant partner or
dependant child of a Domestic Worker in a Private
Household
DW 16.1. A person seeking to come to the UK as a
partner or child of a Domestic Worker in a Private
Household must apply for and obtain entry clearance as
a partner or child of a Domestic Worker in a Private
Household before they arrive in the UK.
DW 16.2. A person applying for entry clearance as the
partner or child of a Domestic Worker in a Private
Household must, if Appendix Tuberculosis applies,
provide a valid medical certificate confirming that they
have undergone screening for active pulmonary
tuberculosis and that this tuberculosis is not present in
them.
Relationship requirement for a dependant partner of
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-domestic-workers-in-a-private-household

Page 9 of 17

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Domestic Workers in a Private Household - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:47 am

a Domestic Worker in a Private Household
DW 17.1. The applicant must be the partner of a person
(P) where one of the following applies:
(a) P has permission as a Domestic Worker in a
Private Household; or
(b) P is, at the same time, applying for (and is
granted) permission as a Domestic Worker in a
Private Household; or
(c) P is settled or has become a British citizen,
providing P had permission on the Domestic Worker
in a Private Household route when they settled, and
the applicant had permission as P’s partner at that
time.
DW 17.2. If the applicant and their Domestic Worker in a
Private Household partner are not married or in a civil
partnership, all of the following requirements must be
met:
(a) they must have been living together in a
relationship similar to marriage or civil partnership
for at least the two years before the date of
application; and
(b) any previous relationship of the applicant or their
Domestic Worker in a Private Household partner
with another person must have permanently broken
down; and
(c) the applicant and their Domestic Worker in a
Private Household partner must not be so closely
related that they would not be allowed to marry or
form a civil partnership in the UK.
DW 17.3. The relationship between the applicant and
their Domestic Worker in a Private Household partner
must be genuine and subsisting.
DW 17.4. The applicant and their Domestic Worker in a
Private Household partner must intend to live together
throughout the applicant’s stay in the UK.
Relationship requirement for a dependant child of a
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-domestic-workers-in-a-private-household

Page 10 of 17

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Domestic Workers in a Private Household - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:47 am

Domestic Worker in a Private Household
DW 18.1. DELETED
DW 18.2. DELETED.
DW 18.3. DELETED.
Age requirement for a dependent child of a
Domestic Worker in a Private Household
DW 19.1. DELETED.
DW 19.2. DELETED.
DW 19.3. DELETED.
Requirements for a dependent child of a Domestic
Worker in a Private Household
DW 19A.1. The applicant must meet the following
requirements for a dependent child in Appendix
Children:
(a) relationship requirement: entry clearance and
permission to stay; and
(b) care requirement; and
(c) age and independent life requirement.
Financial requirement for a dependent partner or a
dependant child of a Domestic Worker in a Private
Household
DW 20.1 The decision maker must be satisfied that
there will be adequate maintenance and
accommodation for the applicant, the person on the
Domestic Worker in a Private Household route, and any
other dependants in the UK, without recourse to public
funds.
Decision on an application as a dependant partner
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-domestic-workers-in-a-private-household

Page 11 of 17

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Domestic Workers in a Private Household - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:47 am

or a dependant child of a Domestic Worker in a
Private Household
DW 21.1 If the decision maker is satisfied that all the
suitability and eligibility requirements are met for a
dependent partner or a dependant child of a Domestic
Worker in a Private Household the application will be
granted, otherwise the application will be refused.
DW 21.2. If the application is refused the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.
Period of grant for a dependant partner or a
dependant child of a Domestic Worker in a Private
Household
DW 22.1. A partner will be granted:
(a) permission which ends on the same date as their
partner’s permission as a Domestic Worker in a
Private Household; or
(b) 2 years’ permission if the Domestic Worker in a
Private Household was (or is being) granted
settlement as a Domestic Worker in a Private
Household.
DW 22.2. A child will be granted permission which ends
on the same date as whichever of their parents’
permission ends first, unless both parents have (or are
being granted) settlement or British Citizenship, in which
case the child will be granted permission for 30 months.
Conditions of grant for a dependant partner or
dependant child of a Domestic Worker in a Private
Household
DW 22.3. The grant will be subject to all the following
conditions:
(a) no access to public funds; and
(b) work (including self-employment and voluntary
work) permitted; except for employment as a
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-domestic-workers-in-a-private-household

Page 12 of 17

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Domestic Workers in a Private Household - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:47 am

professional sportsperson (including as a sports
coach); and
(c) study is permitted, subject to the ATAS condition
in Appendix ATAS.
(d) DELETED.
Settlement as a dependant partner or a dependant
child of a Domestic Worker in a Private Household
Validity requirements for settlement as a dependant
partner or a dependant child of a Domestic Worker
in a Private Household
DW 23.1. A person applying for settlement as a
dependant partner or child of a Domestic Worker in a
Private Household must apply online on the gov.uk
website on the specified form SET (O).
DW 23.2. An application for settlement as a partner or
child of a Domestic Worker in a Private Household must
meet all the following requirements:
(a) any fee must have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other travel document which satisfactorily
establishes their identity and nationality; and
(d) the applicant must be in the UK on the date of
application; and
(e) the applicant must be applying as a partner or
child of a person (P) who:
(i) has made a valid application for settlement in
the UK as a Domestic Worker in a Private
Household that has not been decided; or
(ii) is settled or has become a British citizen,
providing P had permission as a Domestic
Worker in a Private Household when they settled
and the applicant either had permission as their
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-domestic-workers-in-a-private-household

Page 13 of 17

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Domestic Workers in a Private Household - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:47 am

partner or child at that time or the applicant is
applying as a child of P and the applicant was
born in the UK before P settled.
DW 23.3. DELETED.
DW 23.4. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for settlement as a partner or child
of a Domestic Worker in a Private Household may be
rejected as invalid and not considered.
Suitability requirements for a dependant partner or
a dependant child of a Domestic Worker in a Private
Household
DW 24.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
DW 24.2. The applicant must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.
Eligibility requirements for a dependant partner or a
dependant child of a Domestic Worker in a Private
Household
Relationship requirements for a dependant partner
or a dependant child of a Domestic Worker in a
Private Household
DW 25.1. The applicant must be the partner or child of a
person (P) where one of the following applies:
(a) P is, at the same time, being granted settlement
as a Domestic Worker in a Private Household; or
(b) P is settled or has become a British citizen,
providing P had permission as a Domestic Worker in
a Private Household when they settled, and the
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-domestic-workers-in-a-private-household

Page 14 of 17

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Domestic Workers in a Private Household - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:47 am

applicant either:
i) had permission as P’s partner or child at that
time; or
ii) is applying as the child of P, and was born in
the UK before P settled.
DW 25.1A. The applicant must either:
(a) have last been granted permission as a
dependent partner or dependent child of the person
(P) in DW 25.1; or
(b) have been born in the UK and be applying as a
child of the person (P) in DW 25.1.
DW 25.2. If applying as a child, the applicant must meet
the relationship requirement for settlement in Appendix
Children.
Care requirement for settlement as a dependant
child of a Domestic Worker in a Private Household
DW 26.1. DELETED.
Age requirement for settlement by a dependant
child of a Domestic Worker in a Private Household
DW 27.1. DELETED.
DW 27.2. DELETED.
Requirements for settlement as a dependent child of
a Domestic Worker in a Private Household
DW 27A.1. The applicant must meet the following
requirements for a dependent child in Appendix
Children:
(a) care requirement; and
(b) age and independent life requirement.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-domestic-workers-in-a-private-household

Page 15 of 17

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Domestic Workers in a Private Household - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:47 am

Qualifying period requirement for settlement as a
dependant partner of a Domestic Worker in a Private
Household route
DW 28.1. The applicant must have spent a continuous
period of 5 years in the UK with permission as a
dependant partner of the person (P) in DW 25.1.
Continuous residence requirement for settlement by
a dependant partner of a Domestic Worker in a
Private Household
DW 29.1. The applicant must meet the continuous
resident requirement as set out in Appendix Continuous
Residence during the period in DW 29.1.
English language requirement for settlement by a
dependant partner or dependent child of a domestic
worker in a Private Household
DW 30.1. Unless an exemption applies, the applicant
must show English language ability on the Common
European Framework of Reference for Languages in
speaking and listening of at least level B1.
DW 30.2. The applicant must show they meet the
English language requirement as specified in Appendix
English Language.
Knowledge of life in the UK requirement for
settlement by a dependant partner or dependant
child of a Domestic Worker in a Private Household
DW 31.1. If the applicant is aged 18 or over at the date
of application, they must meet the Knowledge of Life in
the UK requirement as specified Appendix KOL UK.
Decision on an application for settlement as a
dependant partner or dependant child of a Domestic
Worker in a Private Household
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-domestic-workers-in-a-private-household

Page 16 of 17

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Domestic Workers in a Private Household - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:47 am

DW 32.1. If the decision maker is satisfied all the
suitability and eligibility requirements are met for
settlement as a dependant partner or dependant child of
a Domestic Worker in a Private Household, the
applicant will be granted settlement, otherwise the
application will be refused.
DW 32.2 If the application is refused the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-domestic-workers-in-a-private-household

© Crown copyright

Page 17 of 17

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix E
Appendix E applies only to applications as
a dependent partner or dependent child of
a Tier 1 (Entrepreneur) Migrant
A sufficient level of funds must be available to an
applicant applying as the Partner or Child of a Tier 1
(Entrepreneur) Migrant. A sufficient level of funds will
only be available if the requirements below are met.
(aa) Paragraphs 1A and 1B of Appendix C also apply to
this Appendix.
(ab) The applicant cannot use the same funds to score
points for maintenance funds from this Appendix as the
Tier 1 (Entrepreneur) Migrant used to score points for
attributes under Appendix A.
(a) Where the application is connected to a Tier 1
(Entrepreneur) Migrant who is outside the UK or who
has been in the UK for a period of less than 12 months,
there must be £1,890 in funds.
(b) DELETED.

(ba) (i) DELETED.
(c) Where the applicant is applying as the Partner of a
Tier 1 (Entrepreneur) Migrant the relevant amount of
funds must be available to either the applicant or the
Tier 1 (Entrepreneur) Migrant.
(d) Where the applicant is applying as the Child of a Tier
1 (Entrepreneur) Migrant, the relevant amount of funds
must be available to the applicant, the Tier 1
(Entrepreneur) Migrant, or the applicant’s other parent
who is Lawfully present in the UK or being granted entry
clearance, or leave to enter or remain, at the same time.
(e) Where the Tier 1 (Entrepreneur) Migrant is applying
for entry clearance or leave to remain at the same time
as the applicant, the amount of funds available to the
applicant must be in addition to the level of funds
required separately of the Tier 1 (Entrepreneur) Migrant.
(f) In all cases, the funds in question must be available
to:
(i) the applicant, or
(ii) where they are applying as the partner of a Tier 1
(Entrepreneur) Migrant, either to them or to that Tier
1 (Entrepreneur) Migrant, or
(iii) where they are applying as the child of a Tier 1
(Entrepreneur) Migrant, either to them, to the Tier 1
(Entrepreneur) Migrant or to the child’s other parent
who is lawfully present in the UK or being granted
entry clearance, or leave to enter or remain, at the
same time;
(g) The funds in question must have been available to
the person referred to in (f) above on the date of
application and for a consecutive 90-day period of time.
(h) If the funds in question were obtained when the
person referred to in (f) above was in the UK, the funds
must have been obtained while that person had valid
leave and was not acting in breach of any conditions
attached to that leave; and
(i) DELETED.
(ia) Sufficient funds will not be treated as available to
the partner or child unless the specified documents, as
set out in paragraph 1B of Appendix C, show that the
funds are held in a financial institution to which
Appendix Finance applies.

(ib) DELETED.
(ic) DELETED.
(j) In all cases the applicant must provide the specified
documents as set out in paragraph 1B of Appendix C.
(k) DELETED
(l) DELETED
(m) DELETED
(n) DELETED.
(o) DELETED
(p) DELETED
(q) DELETED

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

© Crown copyright

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix ECAA
Settlement: ECAA nationals and settlement
Appendix ECAA Settlement: ECAA
nationals and settlement

PART ECAA 1. DEFINITIONS
ECAA 1.1. DELETED
ECAA 1.2. Unless the contrary intention is expressed in
this Appendix, the definitions in paragraph 6 of the
Immigration Rules shall apply to this Appendix.

PART ECAA 2. CONTINUOUS PERIODS
LAWFULLY IN THE UK
DELETED

PART ECAA 3. REQUIREMENTS FOR
ECAA WORKERS APPLYING FOR
INDEFINITE LEAVE TO REMAIN
ECAA 3.1. The requirements for indefinite leave to
remain as an ECAA worker are that the applicant must:
(a) be an ECAA worker; and
(b) have met the continuous residence requirement as
set out in Appendix Continuous Residence for a
qualifying period of 5 years, of which the most recent
period of leave must have been as an ECAA worker, in
any combination of the following categories:
(i) an ECAA worker;
(ii) as a Tier 2 (General Migrant);
(iii) as a Tier 2 (Minister of religion) Migrant;
(iv) as a Tier 2 (Sportsperson) Migrant; or
(v) as a work permit holder; and
(c) have demonstrated sufficient knowledge of the
English language and sufficient knowledge about life in
the UK, in accordance with Appendix KoLL; and
(d) have been able to support any family members with
them without recourse to public funds to which they are
not entitled; and
(e) not fall for refusal under Part Suitability; and
(f) not be in the UK in breach of immigration laws,
except that where the Exceptions for overstayers
section of Part Suitability applies, any current period of
overstaying will be disregarded.
Indefinite leave to remain as an ECAA worker
ECAA 3.2. Indefinite leave to remain as an ECAA
worker will be granted where the Secretary of State is
satisfied that the requirements of paragraph ECAA 3.1.
are met.
Refusal of indefinite leave to remain as an ECAA
worker

ECAA 3.3. Indefinite leave to remain as an ECAA
worker will be refused where the Secretary of State is
not satisfied that the requirements of paragraph ECAA
3.1. are met.

PART ECAA 4. REQUIREMENTS FOR
ECAA BUSINESS PERSONS APPLYING
FOR INDEFINITE LEAVE TO REMAIN
ECAA 4.1. The requirements for indefinite leave to
remain as an ECAA business person are that the
applicant must:
(a) be an ECAA business person; and
(b) have met the continuous residence requirement as
set out in Appendix Continuous Residence for a
qualifying period of 5 years, of which the most recent
period of leave must have been as an ECAA business
person, in any combination of the following categories:
(i) an ECAA business person; or
(ii) the Tier 1 (Entrepreneur) Migrant category; and
(c) have demonstrated sufficient knowledge of the
English language and sufficient knowledge about life in
the UK, in accordance with Appendix KoLL; and
(d) not fall for refusal under Part Suitability; and
(e) be relying on a business or businesses which
meet(s) the requirements under paragraph ECAA 4.2.;
and
(f) not be in breach of UK immigration laws, except that,
where the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, any current period of overstaying will
be disregarded; and
(g) have been able to support any family members with
them without recourse to public funds to which they are
not entitled.
ECAA 4.2. The Secretary of State must be satisfied on
the balance of probabilities that:
(a) the applicant has established, taken over or become
a director of one or more genuine businesses in the UK,
and has genuinely operated that business or

businesses while they had leave as an ECAA business
person; and
(b) the business or businesses upon which they are
relying for any of the qualifying period is or are viable;
and
(c) the applicant genuinely intends to continue operating
one or more businesses in the UK.
ECAA 4.3. In making the assessment in paragraph
ECAA 4.2., the Secretary of State may take into account
the following factors:
(a) the evidence the applicant has submitted;
(b) the viability and credibility of the source of the
money used to set up or invest in the business or
businesses;
(c) the credibility of the financial accounts of the
business or businesses;
(d) the credibility of the applicant’s business activity in
the UK, including when they had leave as an ECAA
business person;
(e) if the nature of the business requires mandatory
accreditation, registration and/or insurance, whether
that accreditation, registration and/or insurance has
been obtained; and
(f) any other relevant information.
ECAA 4.4. The Secretary of State may request
additional information and evidence to support the
assessment in paragraph ECAA 4.2. and may refuse
the application if the information or evidence requested
is not received by the Secretary of State at the address
specified in the request within 28 calendar days of the
date of the request.
Indefinite leave to remain as an ECAA business
person
ECAA 4.5. Indefinite leave to remain as an ECAA
business person will be granted where the Secretary of
State is satisfied that the requirements of paragraph
ECAA 4.1. are met.

Refusal of indefinite leave to remain as an ECAA
business person
ECAA 4.6. Indefinite leave to remain as an ECAA
business person will be refused where the Secretary of
State is not satisfied that the requirements of paragraph
ECAA 4.1. are met.

PART ECAA 5. REQUIREMENTS FOR
CHILDREN OF ECAA WORKERS OR
ECAA BUSINESS PERSONS APPLYING
FOR INDEFINITE LEAVE TO REMAIN
ECAA 5.1. The requirements for indefinite leave to
remain as the child of an ECAA worker or ECAA
business person are that:
(a) the applicant is the child of a parent who has, or is at
the same time being granted, indefinite leave to remain
as:
(i) an ECAA worker or ECAA business person; or
(ii) the spouse, civil partner or unmarried partner of
an ECAA worker or ECAA business person; and
(b) the applicant must have, or have last been granted,
leave as the child of, or have been born in the UK to, an
ECAA worker or ECAA business person (or the spouse,
civil partner or unmarried partner of an ECAA worker or
ECAA business person) who has or is being granted
indefinite leave to remain; and
(c) the applicant must not be married or in a civil
partnership, must not have formed an independent
family unit, and must not be leading an independent life,
and if they are over the age of 21 on the date the
application is made, they must provide the specified
documents and information in paragraph 319H-SD
(except that references to the Relevant Points Based
System Migrant are to be read to mean the ECAA
worker or ECAA business person) to show that this
requirement is met; and
(d) both of the applicant’s parents must either be
lawfully settled in the UK, or be being granted indefinite
leave to remain at the same time as the applicant,
unless:

(i) the ECAA worker or ECAA business person is the
applicant’s sole surviving parent; or
(ii) the ECAA worker or ECAA business person
parent has and has had sole responsibility for the
applicant’s upbringing; or
(iii) there are serious and compelling family or other
considerations which would make it desirable not to
refuse the application and suitable arrangements
have been made for the applicant’s care; or
(iv) one parent is, at the same time, being granted
indefinite leave to remain as an ECAA worker or
ECAA business person, and the other parent is
lawfully present in the UK or being granted leave at
the same time as the applicant; and
(e) the applicant has demonstrated sufficient knowledge
of the English language and sufficient knowledge about
life in the UK, in accordance with Appendix KoLL,
unless they are under the age of 18 at the date on
which the application is made; and
(f) if the applicant is a child of an ECAA worker or ECAA
business person, the applicant must provide a full birth
certificate, with a translation where necessary, showing
the names of both parents; and
(g) all arrangements for the child’s care and
accommodation in the UK must comply with relevant UK
legislation and regulations; and
(h) the applicant must not be in the UK in breach of
immigration laws, except that, where the Exceptions for
overstayers section of Part Suitability applies, any
current period of overstaying will be disregarded; and
(i) the applicant must not fall for refusal under Part
Suitability.
Indefinite leave to remain as the child of an ECAA
worker or ECAA business person
ECAA 5.2. Indefinite leave to remain as the child of an
ECAA worker or ECAA business person will be granted
where the Secretary of State is satisfied that the
requirements of paragraph ECAA 5.1. are met.

Refusal of indefinite leave to remain as the child of
an ECAA worker or ECAA business person
ECAA 5.3. Indefinite leave to remain as the child of an
ECAA worker or ECAA business person will be refused
where the Secretary of State is not satisfied that the
requirements of paragraph ECAA 5.1. are met.

PART ECAA 6. REQUIREMENTS FOR
PARTNERS OF ECAA WORKERS OR
ECAA BUSINESS PERSONS APPLYING
FOR INDEFINITE LEAVE TO REMAIN
ECAA 6.1. The requirements for indefinite leave to
remain as the partner of an ECAA worker or ECAA
business person are that the applicant must:
(a) be the spouse, civil partner or unmarried partner of a
person (“P”) who:
(i) has indefinite leave to remain as an ECAA worker
or ECAA business person; or
(ii) is at the same time being granted indefinite leave
to remain as an ECAA worker or ECAA business
person; or
(iii) has become a British citizen where prior to that
they held indefinite leave to remain as an ECAA
worker or ECAA business person; and
(b) have, or have last been granted, leave as the
spouse, civil partner or unmarried partner of P; and
(c) be in a marriage, civil partnership or unmarried
partnership with P, which must be genuine and
subsisting at the time the application is made; and
(d) intend to live permanently with P as their spouse,
civil partner or unmarried partner; and
(e) have demonstrated sufficient knowledge of the
English language and sufficient knowledge about life in
the UK, in accordance with Appendix KoLL; and
(f) have been living together with P in the UK in a
marriage, civil partnership or unmarried partnership for
at least the applicable qualifying period in line with
paragraphs ECAA 6.2. and ECAA 6.3.; and

(g) not fall for refusal under Part Suitability.
ECAA 6.2. The spouse, civil partner or unmarried
partner of an ECAA worker or ECAA business person
must have met the continuous residence requirement as
set out in Appendix Continuous Residence for a
qualifying period of 5 years, which may consist of a
combination of leave as either:
(a) the spouse, civil partner or unmarried partner of an
ECAA worker or ECAA business person; or
(b) the spouse, civil partner or unmarried partner of an
ECAA worker or ECAA business person during a period
when that person had leave under another category of
these Rules.
ECAA 6.3. During the 5-year qualifying period under
paragraph ECAA 6.2. the applicant must:
(a) have been in a relationship with the same ECAA
worker or ECAA business person for the entire period;
and
(b) have spent the most recent part of the 5-year period
with leave as the spouse, civil partner or unmarried
partner of that ECAA worker or ECAA business person;
and
(c) have spent the remainder of the 5-year period,
where applicable, with leave as the spouse, civil partner
or unmarried partner of that ECAA worker or ECAA
business person at a time when that person had leave
under another category of these Rules.
Indefinite leave to remain as the partner of an ECAA
worker or ECAA business person
ECAA 6.4. Indefinite leave to remain as the partner of
an ECAA worker or ECAA business person will be
granted where the Secretary of State is satisfied that the
requirements of paragraph ECAA 6.1. are met.
Refusal of indefinite leave to remain as the partner
of an ECAA worker or ECAA business person
ECAA 6.5. Indefinite leave to remain as the partner of

an ECAA worker or ECAA business person will be
refused where the Secretary of State is not satisfied that
the requirements of paragraph ECAA 6.1. are met.

PART ECAA 7. REQUIREMENTS FOR
PARTNERS OF ECAA WORKERS OR
ECAA BUSINESS PERSONS APPLYING
FOR FURTHER LEAVE TO REMAIN
ECAA 7.1. The requirements for further leave to remain
as the partner of an ECAA worker or ECAA business
person are that the applicant must:
(a) be the spouse, civil partner or unmarried partner of
an ECAA worker or ECAA business person who:
(i) has been granted indefinite leave to remain in line
with the ECAA guidance in force prior to 16 March
2018; or
(ii) has been granted indefinite leave to remain
under paragraph ECAA 3.2. or ECAA 4.5.; or
(iii) has British citizenship having previously been
granted indefinite leave to remain under either
provision specified in (i) or (ii) of this paragraph; and
(b)(i) have last been granted leave to remain as a
dependant of an ECAA worker or ECAA business
person; or
(ii) having last been granted leave to remain as a
dependant of an ECAA business person, currently be in
the UK without leave as, at the time of that leave
expiring:
(aa) they did not qualify for indefinite leave to remain
in line with the ECAA guidance in force prior to 16
March 2018 due to not meeting the 2 years’
residency requirement; and
(bb) did not qualify for further limited leave to remain
as the dependant of an ECAA business person due
to that ECAA business person having acquired
indefinite leave to remain; and
(c) be living together and in a subsisting relationship
with the ECAA worker or ECAA business person; and
(d) not fall for refusal under Part Suitability; and

(e) have a sponsor who has adequate accommodation
for the parties and can maintain any dependants without
recourse to public funds; and
(f) not be in breach of UK immigration laws except that:
(i) where the Exceptions for overstayers section of
Part Suitability applies, any current period of
overstaying will be disregarded; or
(ii) where paragraph ECAA 7.1.(b)(ii) applies, any
current period of overstaying will be disregarded.
(g) DELETED.
Granting further leave to remain as the partner of an
ECAA worker or ECAA business person
ECAA 7.2. Leave to remain for up to 3 years as the
partner of an ECAA worker or ECAA business person
will be granted where the Secretary of State is satisfied
that the requirements of paragraph ECAA 7.1. are met.
Refusal of further leave to remain as an ECAA
worker or ECAA business person
ECAA 7.3. Leave to remain as the partner of an ECAA
worker or ECAA business person will be refused where
the Secretary of State is not satisfied that the
requirements of paragraph ECAA 7.1. are met.

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

© Crown copyright

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix ECAA: Extension
of Stay
Appendix ECAA: Extension of Stay
This route is for ECAA workers, business persons and
their family members who are in the UK and already
hold permission in that capacity and are seeking an
extension of their permission.
It also covers children of ECAA workers and business
persons who can apply for entry clearance to come to
the UK as a dependent child.
A person with permission on the ECAA route can apply
for settlement under Appendix ECAA Settlement.

Validity requirements for an ECAA
Worker or ECAA business person on the
ECAA Extension of Stay route
ECAA 1.1. A person applying for permission to stay on

the ECAA route must apply online on the gov.uk website
on the specified form “Turkish Businessperson or
Worker”.
ECAA 1.2. An application for permission to stay as an
ECAA worker or ECAA business person must meet all
the following requirements:
(a) the applicant must be a Turkish national; and
(b) the applicant must have provided any required
biometrics; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other travel document which satisfactorily
establishes their identity and nationality: and
(d) the applicant must be in the UK.
ECAA 1.3. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for the ECAA Extension of Stay
route may be rejected as invalid and not considered.

Suitability requirements for the ECAA
Extension of Stay route
ECAA 2.1. The suitability requirement for the ECAA
Extension of Stay route will be met unless:
(a) the applicant is an ECAA worker, and in respect
of conduct before 11pm on 31 December 2020, the
decision maker considers it is proportionate to
refuse the application on grounds of public policy,
public security or public health in accordance with
Article 14 of Decision 1/80; or
(b) the applicant is a Turkish business person, and
in respect of conduct before 11pm on 31 December
2020, the application is refused on grounds that it is
undesirable to grant it in the light of the applicant’s
character, conduct or associations as set out in
paragraph 4 of HC510; or
(c) in respect of conduct after 11pm on 31
December 2020, the applicant falls for refusal as
provided for in SUI 1.2. of Part Suitability of these
rules or ECAA 2.2.
ECAA 2.2. If applying for permission to stay and in
respect of conduct after 11pm on 31 December 2020,

the applicant must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.

Eligibility requirements for the ECAA
Extension of Stay route
ECAA worker requirement for the ECAA route
ECAA 3.1. To meet the ECAA worker requirement the
applicant must:
(a) have permission as an ECAA worker; and
(b) have been lawfully employed in the UK for at
least 3 years with the same employer; or
(c) have been lawfully employed in the UK for at
least 4 years, including at least 3 years with the
same employer and the remaining time in the same
occupation.
ECAA 3.2. The applicant must show that they will
continue to be employed in the UK throughout the
period of permission requested.
ECAA 3.3. The requirements in ECAA 3.1.and ECAA
3.2. must be proved by evidence that the applicant:
(a) holds a valid employment contract with the
employer; and
(b) continues to receive payment for services as part
of that contract.
ECAA 3.4. For the purposes of ECAA 3.1. the following
absences will be treated as periods during which the
applicant was lawfully employed:
(a) annual holidays; and
(b) statutory maternity leave, paternity leave or
shared parental leave; and
(c) statutory adoption leave; and
(d) sick leave (up to 6 weeks in any 12 months, or

longer if there are compelling circumstances); and
(e) absence due to an accident at work; and
(f) periods of involuntary unemployment (provided
that the applicant registered with the relevant
employment authorities and made a reasonable
effort to re-join the workforce); and
(g) jury service; and
(h) attending court as a witness.
ECAA Business person requirement for the ECAA
route
ECAA 4.1. To meet the ECAA business person
requirement, the applicant must meet all the following
requirements:
(a) the applicant must have permission as an ECAA
business person; and
(b) the applicant must have established, or intend to
establish, take over or become a partner or director
of, one or more genuine businesses in the UK; and
(c) the business or businesses must be viable; and
(d) the applicant must genuinely intend to operate,
or have genuinely operated, one or more
businesses in the UK.
ECAA 4.2. The applicant must:
(a) provide evidence that they have invested, or will
invest, sufficient funds or assets in the business or
businesses in proportion to their interest in the
business or businesses; and
(b) demonstrate that those funds or assets are, and
continue to be, their own; and
(c) demonstrate they can meet their share of the
liabilities which the business or businesses may
incur; and
(d) demonstrate that their part in the business or
businesses does not amount to disguised
employment; and
(e) demonstrate that their share of the profits of the
business is enough to support themselves and any

dependants; and
(f) if they are joining an existing business, provide:
(i) a written statement of the terms and
conditions on which they are joining the
business; and
(ii) accounts for the existing business for the 12
months before the date of application; and
(iii) evidence that there is a genuine need for
their services and investment.
ECAA 4.3. In assessing whether the requirements in
ECAA 4.1. and ECAA 4.2. are met, the factors that will
be considered include the following:
(a) the viability and credibility of the source of the
money being used to set up or invest in the business
or businesses; and
(b) evidence of a credible time frame (lasting no
more than 11 months) of when money that has not
yet been invested in the business or businesses will
be invested; and
(c) the credibility of the financial accounts of the
business or businesses; and
(d) the credibility of the applicant’s proposed
business activity in the UK; and
(e) if the nature of the business requires mandatory
accreditation, registration or insurance, whether the
accreditation, registration or insurance have been
obtained.

Decision on the ECAA Extension of Stay
route
ECAA 5.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that the
suitability requirements are met, and either the eligibility
requirements for either an ECAA worker or an ECAA
business person are met, the application will be
granted; otherwise, the application will be refused.

Period and conditions of grant on the
ECAA Extension of Stay route

ECAA 6.1. If the applicant meets the ECAA worker
requirement and meets the requirement in ECAA 3.1.
(a), and 3.1.(b) but does not meet the requirement in
ECAA 3.1.(c), they will be granted permission to stay for
up to 12 months.
ECAA 6.2. If the applicant meets the ECAA worker
requirement and meets the requirement in ECAA 3.1.
(c), they will be granted permission to stay for up to 36
months.
ECAA 6.3. If the applicant meets the ECAA business
person requirement, they will be granted permission to
stay for up to 36 months.
ECAA 6.4. The grant will be subject to all the following
conditions:
(a) if the applicant meets the ECAA worker
requirement and has been lawfully employed in the
UK for less than 4 years, work is allowed only for the
applicant’s current employer, or in the same
occupation with a different employer; and
(b) if the applicant meets the ECAA business person
requirement, work is allowed only for the business or
businesses the applicant has established, joined or
taken over (but not as an apprentice); and
(c) no access to public funds (subject to any bilateral agreements); and
(d) study is permitted, subject to the ATAS condition
in Appendix ATAS.
(e) DELETED
ECAA 6.5. If the application is refused the person can
apply for an administrative review under Appendix AR.

Dependants on the ECAA Extension of
Stay route
Validity requirements for dependent partner and
dependent child on the ECAA Extension of Stay
route
ECAA 7.1. A child applying for entry clearance or
permission to stay, and a partner applying for

permission to stay (a partner must already be in the UK
and cannot apply for entry clearance), as a dependant
on the ECAA Extension of Stay route must apply online
on the gov.uk website on the following specified forms:
Location of partner
or child

Specified form

Outside the UK, for
a child applying for
entry clearance

“Join or accompany a family” on
the “Find and apply for other
visas from outside the UK” form

Inside the UK, for a
partner or child
applying for
permission to stay

If applying at the same time as
the ECAA worker, on the form
“Turkish Businessperson or
Worker”
If applying separately,
- Dependant partner of a Turkish
Businessperson or Worker
(ECAA 3 - Dependant Partner),
- Dependant child of a Turkish
Businessperson or Worker
(ECAA 3 - Dependant Child)

ECAA 7.2. An application for entry clearance or
permission to stay by a dependant on the ECAA route
must meet all the following requirements:
(a) the applicant must have provided any required
biometrics; and
(b) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other travel document which satisfactorily
establishes their identity and nationality; and
(c) where the applicant is applying for permission to
stay as a dependent partner they must be in the UK
and have permission to stay as a dependent partner
on the ECAA route.
ECAA 7.3. An application which does not met all the
validity requirements for a partner or child on the ECAA
Extension of Stay route may be rejected as invalid and
not considered.
Suitability requirements for dependent partner and

dependent child on the ECAA Extension of Stay
route
ECAA 8.1. The suitability requirements for entry
clearance for a dependent child will be met unless the
applicant falls for refusal under Part Suitability.
ECAA 8.2. The suitability requirement for permission to
stay as a dependent partner or dependent child on the
ECAA Extension of Stay route will be met unless:
(a) the applicant is the dependant of a Turkish
Worker, and in respect of conduct committed before
11pm on 31 December 2020, the decision maker
considers it is proportionate to refuse the application
on grounds of public policy, public security or public
health in accordance with Article 14 of Decision
1/80; or
(b) the applicant is the dependent of a Turkish
business person, and in respect of conduct
committed before 11pm on 31 December 2020, the
application is refused on grounds that it is
undesirable to grant the application in the light of the
applicant’s character, conduct or associations as set
out in paragraph 4 of HC 510; or
(c) in respect of conduct committed after 11pm on
31 December 2020, the applicant falls for refusal as
provided for under SUI 1.2. of Part Suitability of
these rules or ECAA 8.3. applies.
ECAA 8.3. If applying for permission to stay the
applicant must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.
Eligibility requirements for a dependent partner or
child on the ECAA Extension of Stay route
Entry requirement for a dependent child on the
ECAA Extension of Stay route

ECAA 9.1. A person seeking to come to the UK as a
dependent child must apply for and obtain entry
clearance as a dependent child on the ECAA Extension
of Stay route before they arrive in the UK.
ECAA 9.2. A person applying for entry clearance as a
partner or child on the ECAA Extension of Stay route
must, if Appendix Tuberculosis applies, provide a valid
medical certificate confirming that they have undergone
screening for active pulmonary tuberculosis and that
this tuberculosis is not present in them.
Relationship requirement for a dependent partner
on the ECAA Extension of Stay route
ECAA 10.1. The applicant must be the partner of a
person (P) and P must have permission as an ECAA
worker or ECAA business person on the ECAA route.
ECAA 10.2. If the applicant and the ECAA Worker or
ECAA business person partner are unmarried partners,
all of the following requirements must be met:
(a) they must both be aged 18 or over on the date of
application; and
(b) any previous relationship of the applicant or their
ECAA Worker or ECAA business person partner
with another person must have permanently broken
down; and
(c) the applicant and their ECAA Worker or ECAA
business person partner must not be so closely
related that they would not be allowed to marry or
form a civil partnership in the UK.
ECAA 10.3. The relationship between the applicant and
their ECAA worker or ECAA business person partner
must be genuine and subsisting.
ECAA 10.4. The applicant and their ECAA worker or
ECAA business person partner must intend to live
together throughout the applicant’s stay in the UK.
Relationship requirement for a dependent child on
the ECAA Extension of Stay route

ECAA 11.1. The applicant must be the child of a person
(P) who has permission as an ECAA Worker or ECAA
business person on the ECAA route, or a person who is
the partner of P.
ECAA 11.2. The applicant’s parents must each be either
applying for permission, or be present in the UK with
permission (other than as a visitor) on the ECAA route
unless:
(a) the parent with permission on the ECAA route is
the sole surviving parent; or
(b) the parent with permission on the ECAA route
has sole responsibility for the applicant’s upbringing;
or
(c) the decision maker is satisfied that there are
serious and compelling reasons to grant the
applicant entry clearance or permission to stay, to
live with the parent who has permission on the
ECAA route.
Age requirement for a dependent child on the ECAA
Extension of Stay route
ECAA 12.1. The applicant must be under the age of 21
at the date of application, unless they were last granted
permission as the dependent child of their parent on the
ECAA route.
ECAA 12.2. The applicant must not be leading an
independent life.
Care requirement for a dependent child on the
ECAA Extension of Stay route
ECAA 13.1. If the applicant is under the age of 18 at the
date of application there must be suitable arrangements
for the child’s care and accommodation in the UK, which
must comply with relevant UK legislation and
regulations.
Financial requirement for a dependent partner or
dependent child on the ECAA Extension of Stay
route

ECAA 14.1. There must be adequate accommodation
provided by the ECAA worker or ECAA business person
for the applicant.
ECAA 14.2. Where the applicant is the dependent of an
ECAA business person, the profits of the business or
businesses must be sufficient to maintain the applicant
and any other dependents in the UK.
Decision for a dependent partner or dependent child
on the ECAA route
ECAA 15.1. If the applicant meets the suitability
requirements and meets the eligibility requirements for
either a dependent partner or dependent child on the
ECAA Extension of Stay route, the application will be
granted; otherwise the application will be refused.
Period and conditions of grant for a dependent
partner or dependent child on the ECAA Extension
of Stay route
ECAA 16.1. The grant will be for a period which ends on
the same day as the permission of the ECAA worker or
ECAA business person on the ECAA route.
ECAA 16.2. The grant will be subject to all the following
conditions:
(a) no access to public funds (subject to any bilateral agreement); and
(b) work is permitted; and
(c) study is permitted, subject to the ATAS condition
in Appendix ATAS.
(d) DELETED
ECAA 16.3. If the application is refused, the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

© Crown copyright

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Electronic Travel Authorisation - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:33 am

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix Electronic
Travel Authorisation
Appendix Electronic Travel Authorisation
An Electronic Travel Authorisation (ETA) is required by
specified nationals in advance of travel to the UK.
The holder of an ETA will need to obtain permission to
enter on arrival in the UK but can be refused entry if
they require an ETA and do not have one.
An application for an ETA may be granted through
automated processing. A person who is refused an ETA
has not been refused permission to enter the UK and
will need to apply for a visa if they wish to come to the
UK.
A person who already holds a valid entry clearance, or
permission to enter or stay, is not required to obtain an
ETA.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-electronic-travel-authorisation

Page 1 of 11

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Electronic Travel Authorisation - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:33 am

The ETA application process opened on 25 October
2023 for nationals set out at Immigration Rules
Appendix ETA National List ETANL 1.1(a) who intend to
travel to the UK on or after 15 November 2023.
The ETA application process then opened on 1
February 2024 for nationals set out at Immigration Rules
Appendix ETA National List ETANL 1.1(b) who intend to
travel to the UK on or after 22 February 2024.
The ETA application process will open on 27 November
2024 for nationals set out at Immigration Rules
Appendix ETA National List ETANL 1.1(c) who intend to
travel to the UK on or after 8 January 2025.
The ETA application process will then open on 5 March
2025 for nationals set out at Immigration Rules
Appendix ETA National List ETANL 1.1(d) who intend to
travel to the UK on or after 2 April 2025.

Validity requirements for an Electronic
Travel Authorisation
ETA 1.1. An application for an ETA must meet the
following requirements:
(a) the application must be made in accordance with
the application process on the gov.uk website using
either the mobile application ‘UK ETA’ or the
specified online form: ‘Apply for an ETA to come to
the UK’; and
(b) the applicant must provide an email address
which can be used by the Home Office to contact
them; and
(c) the required fee must be paid; and
(d) the applicant must provide, in accordance with
the application process, a national passport which
satisfactorily establishes their identity and nationality
as a national included at ETANL 1.1 Appendix ETA
National List; and
(e) the applicant must provide a facial image in
accordance with the application process and which
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-electronic-travel-authorisation

Page 2 of 11

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Electronic Travel Authorisation - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:33 am

complies with the rules for digital photos on
‘https://www.gov.uk/photos-for-passports’; and
(f) the applicant must be either:
(i) seeking permission to enter the UK as a
Visitor (other than a Marriage/Civil Partnership
Visitor), staying in the UK for up to 6 months; or
(ii) seeking permission to enter the UK as a
Creative Worker who is seeking entry to the UK
pursuant to paragraph Appendix Temporary
Work - Creative Worker at CRV 3.2; or
(iii) a person making a local journey from the
Republic of Ireland having entered that Republic
from a place outside the common travel area, or
having left the UK whilst having a limited leave to
enter or remain there which has since expired,
who is not a S2 Healthcare Visitor.
ETA 1.2. The applicant must be a national included at
ETANL 1.1. Appendix ETA National List.
ETA 1.3. An applicant who is lawfully resident in the
Republic of Ireland and is travelling to the UK from
elsewhere in the Common Travel Area does not need to
obtain an ETA.
ETA 1.4. For the purposes of ETA 1.3, a person is
lawfully resident in the Republic of Ireland if they are
resident in, and entitled to reside in, the Republic of
Ireland under any relevant legislation or rules which
apply in the Republic of Ireland at the time of the ETA
application, but a person is not lawfully resident if they
may not leave or attempt to leave the Republic of
Ireland without the consent of an Irish Minister.
ETA 1.5. An application which does not meet the validity
requirements for an ETA application is invalid and must
be rejected and not considered.
ETA 1.6. A person who is aged 16 or over who is
seeking to rely on the exemption in ETA 1.3 must, if
required, provide evidence to demonstrate that they are
lawfully resident in the Republic of Ireland.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-electronic-travel-authorisation

Page 3 of 11

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Electronic Travel Authorisation - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:33 am

ETA 1.7. A person who is a British Overseas Territory
Citizen or a British National (Overseas) does not require
an ETA.
ETA 1.8. Subject to the conditions of VN 2.2(o) being
met, a national of Jordan is permitted to travel using an
ETA and arrive in the UK no later than 15:00 BST on 8
October 2024, where an ETA has been granted before
15:00 BST on 10 September 2024.
ETA 1.9. ETA Nationals who are aged 18 or under,
studying at a school or educational institution in France
registered with the French Ministry of Education and
seeking to enter the UK as part of a school party of 5 or
more pupils organised by that school or institution, do
not require an ETA before they travel to the UK as a
Visitor.
ETA 1.10. ETA Nationals who are aged 19 or under,
studying at a school or educational institution in
Germany, the existence of which is confirmed by the
relevant German municipal or competent authority, and
seeking to enter the UK as part of a school party of 5 or
more organised by that school or institution, do not
require an ETA before they travel to the UK as a Visitor.

Suitability requirements for an ETA
Exclusion or deportation order grounds
ETA 2.1. An application for an ETA must be refused
where:
(a) the Secretary of State has personally directed
that the applicant be excluded from the UK; or
(b) the applicant is the subject of an exclusion order;
or
(c) the applicant is the subject of a deportation order,
or a decision to make a deportation order.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-electronic-travel-authorisation

Page 4 of 11

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Electronic Travel Authorisation - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:33 am

Criminality grounds
ETA 2.2. An application for an ETA must be refused
where the applicant:
(a) has been convicted of a criminal offence in the
UK or overseas for which they have received a
custodial sentence of 12 months or more; or
(b) has been convicted of a criminal offence in the
UK or overseas unless more than 12 months have
passed since the date of conviction.

Non-conducive grounds
ETA 2.3. An application for an ETA must be refused
where the applicant’s presence in the UK is not
conducive to the public good because of their conduct,
character, associations or other reasons (including
convictions which do not fall within the criminality
grounds).

Previous breach of immigration laws
grounds
ETA 2.4. An application for an ETA must be refused if,
when they were aged 18 or older, the applicant:
(a) overstayed their permission, unless:
(i) the Home Office holds a record that
permission was subsequently granted with
knowledge of the overstaying; or
(ii) the person left the UK voluntarily, not at the
expense (directly or indirectly) of the Secretary of
State, and the person overstayed for 90 days or
less, where the overstaying began before 6 April
2017; or
(iii)the person left the UK voluntarily, not at the
expense (directly or indirectly) of the Secretary of
State, and the person overstayed for 30 days or
less, where the overstaying began on or after 6
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-electronic-travel-authorisation

Page 5 of 11

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Electronic Travel Authorisation - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:33 am

April 2017; or
(iv) the person left the UK voluntarily, not at the
expense (directly or indirectly) of the Secretary of
State, and the Exceptions for overstayers section
of Part Suitability applies to the period of
overstaying; or
(b) breached a condition attached to their
permission, unless entry clearance or further
permission was subsequently granted with
knowledge of the breach; or
(c) was (or still is) an illegal entrant, unless the
Home Office holds a record that permission was
subsequently granted with knowledge of the illegal
entry; or
(d) used deception in relation to an immigration
application (whether or not successfully), unless the
Home Office holds a record that permission was
subsequently granted with knowledge of the
deception.

False representations, etc. grounds
ETA 2.5. An application for an ETA must be refused
where, in relation to the current or a previous ETA
application:
(a) false representations were made, or false
documents or false information was submitted
(whether or not relevant to the application, and
whether or not to the applicant’s knowledge); or
(b) relevant facts were not disclosed.

Debt to the NHS grounds
ETA 2.6. DELETED

Unpaid litigation costs grounds
ETA 2.7. An application for an ETA must be refused
where the applicant has failed to pay litigation costs
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-electronic-travel-authorisation

Page 6 of 11

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Electronic Travel Authorisation - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:33 am

awarded to the Home Office.

Previous cancellation of an ETA
ETA 2.8. An application for an ETA must be refused if
the applicant had an ETA cancelled by the Home Office
under ETA 5.8, unless the Home Office holds a record
that entry clearance, or permission to enter or stay was
subsequently granted with knowledge of the
cancellation.

Previous refusal as a Visitor
ETA 2.9. An application for an ETA must be refused if
the applicant has previously been refused entry
clearance, permission to enter or permission to stay
under Appendix V: Visitor, unless the Home Office holds
a record that either:
(a) a valid ETA, entry clearance or permission to
enter or stay was held and was not cancelled as a
result of that refusal; or
(b) a valid ETA, entry clearance, or permission to
enter or stay was subsequently granted with
knowledge of that refusal.

Decision on an ETA application
ETA 3.1. If the Secretary of State is satisfied the validity
requirements are met and the application is not refused
on suitability grounds the applicant will be granted an
ETA; otherwise, the application for an ETA will be
refused.

Period of grant of an ETA
ETA 4.1. An ETA will be valid for 2 years from the date
of grant or until the expiry of the holder’s passport used
in the ETA application, whichever is sooner.
ETA 4.2. A person holding a valid ETA may make
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-electronic-travel-authorisation

Page 7 of 11

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Electronic Travel Authorisation - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:33 am

multiple journeys to the UK, for the purpose of seeking
permission to enter on arrival as either:
(a) a Visitor, seeking entry for up to 6 months on
each occasion; or
(b) a Creative Worker who is seeking entry to the UK
pursuant to Appendix Temporary Work – Creative
Worker at CRV 3.2.
ETA 4.3. An ETA will be valid and confer permission to
travel only where the holder travels using the passport
specified in the ETA application.

Cancellation of an ETA
Cancellation on exclusion or deportation order
grounds
ETA 5.1. An ETA held by a person must be cancelled
where:
(a) the Secretary of State has personally directed
that the applicant be excluded from the UK; or
(b) the applicant is the subject of an exclusion order;
or
(c) the applicant is the subject of a deportation order,
or a decision to make a deportation order.
Cancellation on criminality grounds
ETA 5.2. An ETA held by a person must be cancelled
where the person:
(a) has been convicted of a criminal offence in the
UK or overseas for which they have received a
custodial sentence of 12 months or more; or
(b) has been convicted of a criminal offence in the
UK or overseas unless more than 12 months has
passed since the date of conviction
Cancellation on non-conducive grounds
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-electronic-travel-authorisation

Page 8 of 11

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Electronic Travel Authorisation - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:33 am

ETA 5.3. An ETA held by a person must be cancelled
where the person’s presence in the UK is not conducive
to the public good because of their conduct, character,
associations or other reasons (including convictions
which do not fall within the criminality grounds).
Cancellation on breach of immigration laws grounds
ETA 5.4. An ETA held by a person must be cancelled if,
when they were aged 18 or older, the holder:
(a) overstayed their permission, unless;
(i) the Home Office holds a record that
permission was subsequently granted with
knowledge of the overstaying; or
(ii) the person left the UK voluntarily, not at the
expense (directly indirectly) of the Secretary of
State, and the person overstayed for 90 days or
less, where the overstaying began before 6 April
2017; or
(iii)the person left the UK voluntarily, not at the
expense (directly or indirectly) of the Secretary of
State, and the person overstayed for 30 days or
less, where the overstaying began on or after 6
April 2017; or
(iv) the person left the UK voluntarily, not at the
expense (directly or indirectly) of the Secretary of
State, and the Exceptions for overstayers section
of Part Suitability applies to the period of
overstaying; or
(b) breached a condition attached to their
permission, unless entry clearance or further
permission was subsequently granted with
knowledge of the breach; or
(c) was (or still is) an illegal entrant, unless the
Home Office holds a record that permission was
subsequently granted with knowledge of the illegal
entry; or
(d) used deception in relation to an immigration
application (whether or not successfully), unless the
Home Office holds a record that permission was
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-electronic-travel-authorisation

Page 9 of 11

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Electronic Travel Authorisation - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:33 am

subsequently granted with knowledge of the
deception.
Cancellation on false representations, etc. grounds
ETA 5.5. An ETA held by a person must be cancelled
where in relation to an ETA application:
(a) false representations were made, or false
documents or false information submitted (whether
or not relevant to the application, and whether or not
to the applicant’s knowledge); or
(b) relevant facts were not disclosed.
Cancellation due to debt to the NHS
ETA 5.6. An ETA held by a person must be cancelled
where a relevant NHS body has notified the Secretary of
State that the holder has failed to pay charges under
relevant NHS regulations on charges to overseas
visitors and the outstanding charges have a total value
of at least £500.
Cancellation due to unpaid litigation costs
ETA 5.7. An ETA held by a person must be cancelled
where the holder has failed to pay litigation costs
awarded to the Home Office.
Cancellation of an ETA where validity requirements
are not met
ETA 5.8. An ETA held by a person may be cancelled
where it has been issued and one or more of the
requirements of ETA 1.1. and ETA 1.2. were not met
either at the time of the application or subsequently.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-electronic-travel-authorisation

Page 10 of 11

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Electronic Travel Authorisation - Guidance - GOV.UK

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-electronic-travel-authorisation

07/05/2026, 11:33 am

© Crown copyright

Page 11 of 11

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix English Language - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:05 pm

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix
English Language
This Appendix sets out how the English
language requirement is met.
It applies only to applications under Appendix Student,
Appendix Skilled Worker, Appendix Representative of
an Overseas Business, Appendix T2 Minister of
Religion, Appendix International Sportsperson,
Appendix UK Ancestry, Appendix Global Talent,
Appendix Start-up, Appendix Innovator Founder,
Appendix Domestic Worker in a Private Household,
Appendix High Potential Individual, Appendix Settlement
Family Life, Appendix Private Life, Appendix Scale Up,
Appendix Child Relative (Sponsors with Protection),
Appendix Hong Kong British National (Overseas),
Appendix Victim of Domestic Abuse, Appendix
Temporary Work-International Agreement, Appendix HM
Armed Forces, Appendix Long Residence and Appendix
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-english-language

Page 1 of 9

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix English Language - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:05 pm

Bereaved Partner.
The route sets out whether the English language
requirement must be met and at what level.

Exemption
EL 1.1. An applicant for settlement is exempt from the
English language requirement if at the date of
application any of the following apply:
(a) they are aged 65 or over; or
(b) they are aged under 18; or
(c) they have a disability (physical or mental
condition) which prevents them from meeting the
requirement; or
(d) they are applying for settlement as a partner,
parent or dependent child aged over 18 where they:
(i) have spent a continuous period of 15 years in
the UK with permission; and
(ii) can show an English language speaking and
listening qualification at A2 CEFR or ESOL entry
level 2 or Scottish Credit and Qualification
Framework level 3; and
(iii) Where the date of application is before 26
March 2027, provide confirmation from a
qualified English teacher that the applicant has
attended an English language class for at least
75 guided learning hours (not unsupervised
study or preparation time) in the 12 months
before the date of application and the teacher’s
view is the applicant is unlikely to attain B1 level
through further study; or
(iv) Where the date of application is on or after
26 March 2027, provide confirmation from a
qualified English teacher that the applicant has
attended an English language class for at least
75 guided learning hours (not unsupervised
study or preparation time) in the 12 months
before the date of application and the teacher’s
view is the applicant is unlikely to attain B2 level
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-english-language

Page 2 of 9

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix English Language - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:05 pm

through further study.
EL 1.2. An applicant for entry clearance or permission to
stay under Appendix HM Armed Forces is exempt from
the English language requirement if at the date of
application any of the following apply:
(a) they are aged 65 or over; or
(b) they are aged under 18; or
(c) they have a disability (physical or mental
condition) which prevents them from meeting the
requirement; or
(d) there are exceptional circumstances which
prevent the applicant from meeting the English
language requirement.

How the requirement is met
EL 2.1. An applicant will meet the English language
requirement if any of the requirements in EL 3.1. to EL
7.2 are met.
EL 2.2. The English language requirement is also met
by a person applying for entry clearance or permission
to stay as a Student if any of the requirements in EL 7.1.
to EL 8.4. are met.
EL 2.3. The English language requirement is also met
by a person applying for entry clearance or permission
to stay as a Skilled Worker route if:
(a) the requirements in EL 7.1. and EL 7.2. are met: or
(b) the requirement in EL 9.1. is met.
EL 2.4. The English language requirement is also met
by a person applying for:
(a) entry clearance or permission to stay on the Start-up
route, or
(b) entry clearance or permission to stay on the
Innovator Founder route; or
(c) entry clearance, permission to stay or settlement on
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-english-language

Page 3 of 9

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix English Language - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:05 pm

the Scale-up route, or
(d) entry clearance or permission to stay on the High
Potential Individual route, or
(e) settlement under Appendix Settlement Family Life,
or
(f) settlement under Appendix Private Life, or
(g) entry clearance, permission to stay or settlement on
the International Sportsperson route; or
(h) entry clearance, permission to stay or settlement on
the Representative of an Overseas Business route; or
(i) entry clearance or permission to stay on the T2
Minister of Religion route; or
(j) settlement on the UK Ancestry route; or
(k) settlement on the Global Talent route; or
(l) settlement on the Domestic Workers in a Private
Household route or
(m) settlement on Hong Kong British National
(Overseas) route; or
(n) settlement on the Appendix Child Relative (Sponsors
with Protection) route; or
(o) settlement on the Appendix Bereaved Partner route;
or
(p) entry clearance or settlement under Appendix Victim
of Domestic Abuse; or
(q) entry clearance, permission to stay or settlement
under Appendix HM Armed Forces; or
(r) settlement under Appendix Long Residence; or
(s) entry clearance under Appendix Temporary Work –
International Agreement.
if the requirements in EL 7.1 and EL 7.2. are met.
EL 2.5. DELETED.

Met in a previous application
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-english-language

Page 4 of 9

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix English Language - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:05 pm

EL 3.1. An applicant will meet the English language
requirement if they have already shown they met the
requirement, at the level required for their current
application, in a previous successful application for entry
clearance or permission to stay.

Majority English speaking country
EL 4.1. An applicant will meet the English language
requirement if they are a national of any of the following
majority-English-speaking countries:
Antigua and Barbuda
Australia
The Bahamas
Barbados
Belize
The British Overseas Territories
Canada
Dominica
Grenada
Guyana
Jamaica
Malta
New Zealand
St Kitts and Nevis
St Lucia
St Vincent and the Grenadines
Trinidad and Tobago
United States of America

Academic qualification
EL 5.1. An applicant will meet the English language
requirement if they have an academic qualification
which meets one of the requirements at EL 5.2. and is
proven by the required evidence under EL 5.3. or EL
5.4.
EL 5.2. The requirements are that the applicant has:
(a) a bachelor’s degree, master’s degree or doctorate
awarded in the UK; or
(b) a degree or degree-level qualification taught in a
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-english-language

Page 5 of 9

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix English Language - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:05 pm

university or college in a majority- English-speaking
country listed in EL 4.1. (except Canada), or Ireland,
which meets or exceeds the recognised standard of a
bachelor’s degree, master’s degree or doctorate
awarded in the UK; or
(c) a degree or degree level qualification which meets,
or exceeds, the recognised standard of a UK bachelor’s
degree; master’s degree or doctorate and was taught or
researched in English.
EL 5.3. The requirement at EL 5.2. must be proven by
one of:
(a) a certificate from the awarding body: or
(b) a transcript issued by the university or college that
awarded the qualification; or
(c) an official letter from the university or college that
awarded the qualification containing information
equivalent to a degree certificate.
EL 5.4. If the qualification was awarded by a body from
outside the UK, the requirement at EL 5.2. must, in
addition to the requirement at EL 5.3, be proven by
confirmation from the qualification and language
assessments provider that the qualification meets the
requirements at EL 5.2(b) or EL 5.2(c).

English language test
EL 6.1. An applicant will meet the English language
requirement if they have provided a valid digital
reference number from an approved provider showing
they have passed an approved English language test to
the required level in each required component as set out
in the relevant route, in the 2 years before the date of
application.
The list of approved tests and providers, updated from
time to time, can be found at
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/prove-your-englishlanguage-abilities-with-a-secure-english-language-testselt#approved-test-providers-and-approved-tests
(https://www.gov.uk/guidance/prove-your-english-languageabilities-with-a-secure-english-language-test-selt#approvedhttps://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-english-language

Page 6 of 9

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix English Language - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:05 pm

test-providers-and-approved-tests).

GCSE or A Level English
EL 7.1. An applicant will meet the English language
requirement if they have a GCSE, an International
GCSE, an A level, a Scottish National Qualification at
level 4 or 5 or a Scottish Higher or Advanced Higher in
English (language or literature) that was awarded:
(a) by an Ofqual (or SQA, Qualifications Wales or
CCEA) regulated awarding body; and
(b) following education undertaken in a UK based
school which began while they were aged under 18.
EL 7.2. The requirement at EL 7.1. must be proven by
either:
(a) a certificate from the awarding body: or
(b) an official transcript issued by the awarding body

Additional ways Students can meet the
English language requirement
EL 8.1. An applicant under Appendix Student will meet
the English language requirement if they are applying
for a course of study at degree level or above and are
sponsored by a higher education provider with a track
record of compliance who states on the Confirmation of
Acceptance for Studies that they have assessed the
applicant’s English language ability and how they have
assessed it.
EL 8.2. Where an assessment under EL 8.1. has been
carried out the Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies
entry must confirm that the applicant has a knowledge
of English equivalent to level B2, or above, of the
Council of Europe’s Common European Framework for
Language Learning in all 4 components (reading,
writing, speaking and listening) or that the requirement
at ST 15.3. is met.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-english-language

Page 7 of 9

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix English Language - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:05 pm

EL 8.3. An applicant under Appendix Student will meet
the English language requirement if they have taken an
approved English test and been exempted from a
component of that test by the test provider due to a
disability, and the student sponsor has confirmed that
they are satisfied the English language ability of the
applicant is sufficient to undertake the course of study.
EL 8.4. An applicant under Appendix Student will meet
the English language requirement if they are applying
for a short-term study abroad programme of up to six
months and both:
(a) the study abroad programme is part of a course of
study at degree level or above at an overseas higher
education institution in the United States of America;
and
(b) the qualification and language assessments provider
confirms that the course of study overseas will lead to
an academic (not a professional or vocational)
qualification at UK bachelor’s degree level or above.

Professional regulation for Skilled
Workers
EL 9.1. An applicant applying for entry clearance or
permission to stay under Appendix Skilled Worker will
meet the English language requirement if they are being
sponsored to work as a doctor, dentist, nurse, midwife
or veterinarian, and have passed an English Language
assessment which is accepted by the relevant regulated
professional body as a requirement for registration.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-english-language

Page 8 of 9

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix English Language - Guidance - GOV.UK

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-english-language

07/05/2026, 12:05 pm

© Crown copyright

Page 9 of 9

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix ETA National List - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:33 am

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix ETA National List
List of nationalities requiring an Electronic
Travel Authorisation (ETA) prior to travel to
the UK pursuant to Appendix Electronic
Travel Authorisation.
ETANL 1.1. Nationalities of the following locations
(including countries and associated territories) are
subject to the requirement to obtain an ETA for travel to
the UK, pursuant to Appendix Electronic Travel
Authorisation:
(a) for travel to the UK on or after 15 November 2023:
Qatar
(b) for travel to the UK on or after 22 February 2024:
Bahrain
Kuwait

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-eta-national-list

Page 1 of 5

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix ETA National List - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:33 am

Kuwait
Oman
United Arab Emirates
Saudi Arabia
(c) for travel to the UK on or after 8 January 2025:
Antigua and Barbuda
Argentina
Australia
Barbados
Belize
Brazil
Brunei
Canada
Chile
Costa Rica
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Hong Kong Special Administrative Region
Israel
Japan
Kiribati
Macao Special Administrative Region
Malaysia
Maldives
Marshall Islands
Mauritius
Mexico
Federated States of Micronesia
New Zealand

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-eta-national-list

Page 2 of 5

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix ETA National List - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:33 am

New Zealand
Palau
Panama
Papua New Guinea
Paraguay
Peru
St Kitts and Nevis
St Vincent and the Grenadines
Samoa
Seychelles
Singapore
Solomon Islands
South Korea
Taiwan*
The Bahamas
Tonga
Tuvalu
United States
Uruguay
*Those who hold a passport issued by Taiwan that
includes in it the number of the identification card issued
by the competent authority in Taiwan.
(d) travelling to the UK on or after 2 April 2025:
Andorra
Austria
Belgium
Bulgaria
Croatia
Cyprus
Czechia

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-eta-national-list

Page 3 of 5

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix ETA National List - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:33 am

Czechia
Denmark
Estonia
Finland
France
Germany
Greece
Hungary
Iceland
Italy
Latvia
Liechtenstein
Lithuania
Luxembourg
Malta
Monaco
Netherlands
Norway
Poland
Portugal
Romania
San Marino
Slovakia
Slovenia
Spain
Sweden
Switzerland
Vatican City

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-eta-national-list

Page 4 of 5

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix ETA National List - Guidance - GOV.UK

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-eta-national-list

07/05/2026, 11:33 am

© Crown copyright

Page 5 of 5

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix EU
(Family Permit)
Appendix EU (Family Permit)
Appendix EU (Family Permit)

Purpose
FP1. This Appendix sets out the basis on which a
person will, if they apply under it, be granted an entry
clearance:
(a) In the form of an EU Settlement Scheme Family
Permit – to join a relevant EEA citizen or a
qualifying British citizen in the UK or to
accompany them to the UK; or
(b) In the form of an EU Settlement Scheme Travel
Permit – to travel to the UK.
FP2. This Appendix has effect in connection with the
granting of entry clearance for the purposes of acquiring
leave to enter or remain in the UK by virtue of Appendix

EU to these Rules.

Requirements and procedure
FP3. The applicant will be granted an entry clearance
under this Appendix, valid for a period of six months
from the date of decision, by an entry clearance officer
where:
(a) A valid application has been made in accordance
with paragraph FP4;
(b) The applicant meets the eligibility requirements
in paragraph FP6(1), (2) or (3); and
(c) The application is not to be refused on grounds
of suitability in accordance with paragraph FP7.
FP4. A valid application has been made under this
Appendix where:
(a) It has been made using the required
application process;
(b) The required proof of identity and nationality
has been provided;
(c) The required biometrics have been provided;
(d) The date of application is before 9 August
2023, where the applicant relies on meeting the
eligibility requirements in paragraph FP6(2); and
(e) The specified sponsor evidence has been
provided, where the date of application is on or after
8 April 2026 and the applicant relies on meeting the
eligibility requirements in paragraph FP6(1).
FP5. An application will be rejected as invalid where it
does not meet the requirements in paragraph FP4(a),
(b), (d) and (e), and will not be considered where it does
not meet the requirement in paragraph FP4(c).
FP6. (1) The applicant meets the eligibility requirements
for an entry clearance to be granted under this
Appendix in the form of an EU Settlement Scheme
Family Permit, where the entry clearance officer is
satisfied that at the date of application:
(a) The applicant is not a British citizen;
(b) The applicant is a family member of a relevant

EEA citizen;
(c) The relevant EEA citizen is resident in the UK or
will be travelling to the UK with the applicant within
six months of the date of application;
(d) The applicant will be accompanying the relevant
EEA citizen to the UK (or joining them in the UK)
within six months of the date of application; and
(e) The applicant (“A”) is not the spouse, civil
partner or durable partner of a relevant EEA
citizen (“B”) where a spouse, civil partner or durable
partner of A or B has been granted an entry
clearance under this Appendix, immediately before
or since the specified date held a valid document in
that capacity issued under the EEA Regulations or
has been granted leave to enter or remain in the UK
in that capacity under or outside the Immigration
Rules.
(2) The applicant meets the eligibility requirements for
an entry clearance to be granted under this Appendix in
the form of an EU Settlement Scheme Family Permit,
where the entry clearance officer is satisfied that at the
date of application:
(a) The applicant is not a British citizen;
(b) The applicant is a family member of a
qualifying British citizen;
(c) The qualifying British citizen is resident in the UK
or will be travelling to the UK with the applicant
within six months of the date of application;
(d) The applicant will be accompanying the
qualifying British citizen to the UK (or joining them in
the UK) within six months of the date of application;
and
(e) The applicant (“A”) is not the spouse, civil partner
or durable partner of a qualifying British citizen (“B”)
where a spouse, civil partner or durable partner of A
or B has been granted an entry clearance under this
Appendix, immediately before or since the specified
date held a valid document in that capacity issued
under the EEA Regulations or has been granted
leave to enter or remain in the UK in that capacity
under or outside the Immigration Rules.
(3) The applicant meets the eligibility requirements for

an entry clearance to be granted under this Appendix in
the form of an EU Settlement Scheme Travel Permit,
where the entry clearance officer is satisfied that at the
date of application:
(a) The applicant is not a British citizen;
(b) The applicant has been granted indefinite leave
to enter or remain or limited leave to enter or remain
under Appendix EU to these Rules, which has not
lapsed or been cancelled, curtailed, revoked or
invalidated and which is evidenced by the Home
Office reference number for that grant of leave; and
(c) The applicant will be travelling to the UK within
six months of the date of application.
FP7. (1) An application made under this Appendix will
be refused on grounds of suitability where any of the
following apply at the date of decision:
(a) The applicant is subject to a deportation order
or to a decision to make a deportation order; or
(b) The applicant is subject to an exclusion order
or exclusion decision.
(1A) An application made under this Appendix will be
refused on grounds of suitability where, because of the
applicant’s conduct committed before the specified date,
the Secretary of State is satisfied that the decision to
refuse the application is justified on the grounds of
public policy, public security or public health in
accordance with regulation 27 of the EEA Regulations,
irrespective of whether the EEA Regulations apply to
that person (except that in regulation 27 for “with a right
of permanent residence under regulation 15” and “who
has a right of permanent residence under regulation 15”
read “who has indefinite leave to enter or remain under,
or who meets the requirements of paragraph EU11,
EU11A or EU12 of, Appendix EU to the Immigration
Rules”; and for “an EEA decision” read “a decision
under paragraph FP7(1A) of Appendix EU (Family
Permit) to the Immigration Rules”).
(2) An application made under this Appendix will be
refused on grounds of suitability where the applicant’s
presence in the UK is deemed not to be conducive to
the public good because of conduct committed after the
specified date.

(2A) An application made under this Appendix will be
refused on grounds of suitability where at the date of
decision:
(a)(i) The applicant is an excluded person, as
defined by section 8B(4) of the Immigration Act
1971, because of their conduct committed before
the specified date, and the person does not fall
within section 8B(5A) or 8B(5B) of that Act; and
(ii) The entry clearance officer is satisfied that,
because of the applicant’s conduct committed
before the specified date, the refusal of the
application is justified on grounds of public policy,
public security or public health in accordance with
regulation 27 of the EEA Regulations, irrespective of
whether the EEA Regulations apply to that person
(except that in regulation 27 for “with a right of
permanent residence under regulation 15” and “who
has a right of permanent residence under regulation
15” read “who has indefinite leave to enter or remain
under, or who meets the requirements of paragraph
EU11, EU11A or EU12 of, Appendix EU to the
Immigration Rules”; and for “an EEA decision” read
“a decision under paragraph FP7(2A)(a) of Appendix
EU (Family Permit) to the Immigration Rules”); or
(b) The applicant is an excluded person, as defined
by section 8B(4) of the Immigration Act 1971,
because of conduct committed after the specified
date, and the person does not fall within section
8B(5A) or 8B(5B) of that Act.
(3) An application made under this Appendix will be
refused on grounds of suitability where at the date of
decision the applicant is subject to an Islands
deportation order.
(3A) An application made under this Appendix may be
refused on grounds of suitability where at the date of
decision the applicant is subject to an Islands
exclusion decision.
(4) An application made under this Appendix may be
refused on grounds of suitability where, at the date of
decision, the entry clearance officer is satisfied that:
(a) It is proportionate to refuse the application
where, in relation to the application and whether or
not to the applicant’s knowledge, false or misleading
information, representations or documents have

been submitted (including false or misleading
information submitted to any person to obtain a
document used in support of the application); and
the information, representation or documentation is
material to the decision whether or not to grant the
applicant an entry clearance under this Appendix; or
(b)(i) The applicant:
(aa) Has previously been refused admission to
the UK in accordance with regulation 23(1) of the
EEA Regulations; or
(bb) Has previously been refused admission to
the UK in accordance with regulation 12(1)(a) of
the Citizens’ Rights (Frontier Workers) (EU Exit)
Regulations 2020; or
(cc) Had indefinite leave to enter or remain or
limited leave to enter or remain granted under
Appendix EU to these Rules (or limited leave to
enter granted by virtue of having arrived in the
UK with an entry clearance that was granted
under this Appendix) which was cancelled under
paragraph 321B(b)(i) or 321B(b)(ii) of these
Rules, under paragraph A3.3. or A3.4.(a) of
Annex 3 to this Appendix or under paragraph
A3.1., A3.1A., A3.1B. or A3.2.(a) of Annex 3 to
Appendix EU; and
(ii) The refusal of the application is justified either:
(aa) In respect of the applicant’s conduct
committed before the specified date, on grounds
of public policy, public security or public health in
accordance with regulation 27 of the EEA
Regulations, irrespective of whether the EEA
Regulations apply to that person (except that in
regulation 27 for “with a right of permanent
residence under regulation 15” and “who has a
right of permanent residence under regulation
15” read “who has indefinite leave to enter or
remain under, or who meets the requirements of
paragraph EU11, EU11A or EU12 of, Appendix
EU to the Immigration Rules”; and for “an EEA
decision” read “a decision under paragraph
FP7(4)(b) of Appendix EU (Family Permit) to the
Immigration Rules”), and it is proportionate to
refuse the application; or
(bb) In respect of conduct committed after the

specified date, where the applicant’s presence in
the UK is deemed not to be conducive to the
public good.
(5) The references in this paragraph to an order or
decision to which the applicant is subject do not include
an order or decision which, at the date of decision on
their application under this Appendix, has been set
aside or revoked.
FP8. A valid application made under this Appendix
which does not meet the requirements for an entry
clearance to be granted will be refused.
FP8A. The applicant will be granted an entry clearance
under this Appendix, in the form of an EU Settlement
Scheme Family Permit, where:
(a) the entry clearance officer is satisfied that the
applicant is a specified EEA family permit case; and
(b) had the applicant made a valid application under this
Appendix, it would not have been refused on grounds of
suitability under paragraph FP7.
FP9. (1) Annex 1 sets out definitions which apply to this
Appendix. Any provision made elsewhere in the
Immigration Rules for those terms, or for other matters
for which this Appendix makes provision, does not apply
to an application made under this Appendix.
(2) Where this Appendix requires that a document, card
or other evidence is valid (or that it remained valid for
the period of residence relied upon), or has not been
cancelled or invalidated or has not ceased to be
effective, it does not matter that the person concerned
no longer has the right to enter or reside under the EEA
Regulations (or under the equivalent provision in the
Islands), on which basis the document, card or other
evidence was issued, by virtue of the revocation of
those Regulations (or equivalent provision in the
Islands).
FP10. Annex 2 applies to the consideration by the entry
clearance officer of a valid application made under this
Appendix.
FP11. Annex 3 applies in respect of the revocation of an
entry clearance that was granted under this Appendix,

and of the cancellation and curtailment of leave to enter
granted by virtue of having arrived in the UK with an
entry clearance that was granted under this Appendix.

Annex 1 - Definitions
Term

Definition

adopted
child

a child adopted in accordance with a
relevant adoption decision

child

(a) the direct descendant under the age
of 21 years of a relevant EEA citizen (or,
as the case may be, of a qualifying
British citizen) or of their spouse or civil
partner; or
(b)(i) the direct descendant aged 21
years or over of a relevant EEA citizen
(or, as the case may be, of a qualifying
British citizen) or of their spouse or civil
partner; and
(ii)(aa) dependent on the relevant EEA
citizen or on their spouse or civil partner:
(aaa) (where sub-paragraph (b)(ii)(aa)
(bbb) below does not apply) at the date
of application; or
(bbb) (where the date of application is
after the specified date and where the
applicant is not a joining family
member) at the specified date; or
(bb) dependent on the qualifying British
citizen (or on their spouse or civil
partner) at the date of application or,
where the date of application is after the
specified date, at the specified date
‘dependent’ means here that:
(a) having regard to their financial and
social conditions, or health, the applicant
cannot meet their essential living needs
(in whole or in part) without the financial
or other material support of the relevant
EEA citizen (or, as the case may be, of
the qualifying British citizen) or of their
spouse or civil partner; and
(b) such support is being provided to the

applicant by the relevant EEA citizen (or,
as the case may be, by the qualifying
British citizen) or by their spouse or civil
partner; and
(c) there is no need to determine the
reasons for that dependence or for the
recourse to that support
in addition:
(a) ‘child’ includes:
(i) an adopted child of; or
(ii) a child born through surrogacy
(where recognised in UK law or Islands
law) for; or
(iii) a child in respect of whom a special
guardianship order (within the meaning
of section 14A(1) of the Children Act
1989) is in force appointing as their
special guardian; or
(iv) a child in respect of whom an order
has been made under section 5 of the
Children Act 1989 appointing as their
guardian; or
(v) a child subject to a permanence
order made under section 80 of the
Adoption and Children (Scotland) Act
2007 vesting parental responsibilities
and parental rights in a person who is; or
(vi) a child who has a guardian
appointed under section 7 of the
Children (Scotland) Act 1995, or who is
living with a person pursuant to an order
made under section 11 of that Act, and
that guardian or other person is; or
(vii) a child in respect of whom an order
has been made under Article 159 of the
Children (Northern Ireland) Order 1995,
or in respect of whom an appointment
has been made under Article 160 of that
Order, appointing as their guardian a
person who is; or
(viii) a child who has a guardian
appointed under section 12 or 14 of the
Children (Guernsey and Alderney) Law
2008 or section 12 or 13 of the Children
(Sark) Law 2016, or who is living in the
care of a person pursuant to an order

made under section 14 of the 2008 Law
or section 13 of the 2016 Law, and that
guardian or other person is; or
(ix) a child in respect of whom an order
under Article 7 of the Children (Jersey)
Law 2002 is in force appointing as their
guardian; or
(x) a child in respect of whom a special
guardianship order (within the meaning
of section 17A of the Children and Young
Persons Act 2001 of Tynwald) has been
made appointing as their special
guardian; or
(xi) a child in respect of whom an order
has been made under section 6 or 7 of
the Children and Young Persons Act
2001 of Tynwald appointing as their
guardian,
a relevant EEA citizen (or, as the case
may be, a qualifying British citizen) or
their spouse or civil partner, but ‘child’
does not include a child cared for by a
relevant EEA citizen (or, as the case
may be, by a qualifying British citizen) or
their spouse or civil partner solely by
virtue of a formal or informal fostering
arrangement; and
(b) ‘direct descendant’ also includes a
grandchild or great-grandchild; and
(c) ‘spouse or civil partner’ means (as
the case may be) the person described
in sub-paragraph (a)(i) or (a)(ii) of the
entry for ‘family member of a qualifying
British citizen’ in this table or in subparagraph (a) of the entry for ‘family
member of a relevant EEA citizen’ in this
table
civil partner

(a) the person is in a valid civil
partnership (which exists under or by
virtue of the Civil Partnership Act 2004
or under any equivalent legislation in the
Islands); or is in a relationship registered
overseas which is entitled to be treated
as a civil partnership under that Act or
under any equivalent legislation in the
Islands, with a relevant EEA citizen (or,

as the case may be, with a qualifying
British citizen); and
(b) it is not a civil partnership of
convenience; and
(c) neither party has another civil
partner, a spouse or a durable partner
with (in any of those circumstances)
immigration status in the UK or the
Islands based on that person’s
relationship with that party
civil
partnership
of
convenience
durable
partnership
of
convenience
marriage of
convenience

a civil partnership, durable partnership or
marriage entered into as a means to
circumvent:
(a) any criterion the party would have to
meet in order to enjoy a right to enter or
reside in the UK under the EEA
Regulations; or
(b) any other provision of UK
immigration law or any requirement of
the Immigration Rules; or
(c) any criterion the party would
otherwise have to meet in order to enjoy
a right to enter or reside in the UK under
EU law; or
(d) any criterion the party would have to
meet in order to enjoy a right to enter or
reside in the Islands under Islands law

date and
time of
withdrawal

2300 GMT on 31 January 2020

date of
application

the date on which the relevant on-line
application form is submitted on-line
under the required application process

dependent
parent

(a) the direct relative in the ascending
line of a relevant EEA citizen (or, as the
case may be, of a qualifying British
citizen) or of their spouse or civil partner;
and
(b) (unless sub-paragraph (c)
immediately below applies):
(i) dependent on the relevant EEA citizen
or on their spouse or civil partner:
(aa) (where sub-paragraph (b)(i)(bb) or

(b)(i)(cc) below does not apply) at the
date of application and (unless the
relevant EEA citizen is under the age of
18 years at the date of application) that
dependency is assumed; or
(bb) (where the date of application is
after the specified date and where the
applicant is not a joining family member)
at the specified date, and (unless the
relevant EEA citizen was under the age
of 18 years at the specified date) that
dependency is assumed; or
(cc) (where the date of application is
after the specified date and where the
applicant is a joining family member) at
the date of application and (unless the
relevant EEA citizen is under the age of
18 years at the date of application) that
dependency is assumed where the date
of application is before 1 July 2021; or
(ii) dependent on the qualifying British
citizen (or on their spouse or civil
partner) at the date of application or,
where the date of application is after the
specified date, at the specified date, and
(unless the qualifying British citizen is
under the age of 18 years at the date of
application or, where the date of
application is after the specified date, the
qualifying British citizen was under the
age of 18 years at the specified date)
that dependency is assumed; and
(c) this sub-paragraph applies (and the
applicant therefore has to meet no
requirement as to dependency) where
the spouse, civil partner or durable
partner of the applicant (and with whom
they reside) has been granted:
(i) an entry clearance under this
Appendix in the form of an EU
Settlement Scheme Family Permit as a
dependent parent of the relevant EEA
citizen (or, as the case may be, of the
qualifying British citizen) or of their
spouse or civil partner, and that entry
clearance has not been revoked or
otherwise ceased to be valid; or

(ii) indefinite leave to enter or remain or
limited leave to enter or remain under
Appendix EU to these Rules as a
dependent parent of the relevant EEA
citizen (or, as the case may be, of the
qualifying British citizen or of the
relevant sponsor) or of their spouse or
civil partner, and that indefinite or limited
leave has not lapsed or been cancelled,
curtailed, revoked or invalidated
‘dependent’ means here that:
(a) having regard to their financial and
social conditions, or health, the applicant
cannot meet their essential living needs
(in whole or in part) without the financial
or other material support of the relevant
EEA citizen (or, as the case may be, of
the qualifying British citizen) or of their
spouse or civil partner; and
(b) such support is being provided to the
applicant by the relevant EEA citizen (or,
as the case may be, by the qualifying
British citizen) or by their spouse or civil
partner; and
(c) there is no need to determine the
reasons for that dependence or for the
recourse to that support
in addition:
(a) ‘direct relative in the ascending line’
includes:
(i) a grandparent or great-grandparent;
and
(ii) an adoptive parent of an adopted
child; and
(b) ‘spouse or civil partner’ means (as
the case may be) the person described
in sub-paragraph (a)(i) or (a)(ii) of the
entry for ‘family member of a qualifying
British citizen’ in this table or in subparagraph (a) of the entry for ‘family
member of a relevant EEA citizen’ in this
table; and
(c) in respect of the reference in the first
sub-paragraph (c) in this entry to the
spouse, civil partner or durable partner

of the applicant, the entry for (as the
case may be) ‘spouse’, ‘civil partner’ or
‘durable partner’ in this table applies,
except that in the applicable entry
‘applicant’ is to be substituted for
‘relevant EEA citizen’
dependent
relative of a
qualifying
British
citizen

the person:
(a)(i) is a relative (other than a spouse,
civil partner, durable partner, child or
dependent parent) of a qualifying British
citizen or of their spouse or civil partner;
and
(ii) is a dependant of a qualifying British
citizen or of their spouse or civil partner,
a member of their household or in strict
need of their personal care on serious
health grounds; or
(b) is a person who is subject to a
non-adoptive legal guardianship
order in favour (solely or jointly with
another party) of a qualifying British
citizen; or
(c) is a person under the age of 18 years
who:
(i) is the direct descendant of the durable
partner of a qualifying British citizen; or
(ii) has been adopted by the durable
partner of a qualifying British citizen, in
accordance with a relevant adoption
decision
in addition, ‘spouse or civil partner’
means the person described in subparagraph (a)(i) or (a)(ii) of the entry for
‘family member of a qualifying British
citizen’ in this table

dependent
relative of a
specified
relevant
person of
Northern
Ireland

the person:
(a)(i) is a relative (other than a spouse,
civil partner, durable partner, child or
dependent parent) of a specified
relevant person of Northern Ireland or of
their spouse or civil partner; and
(ii) is a dependant of a specified relevant
person of Northern Ireland or of their

spouse or civil partner, a member of their
household or in strict need of their
personal care on serious health grounds;
or
(b) is a person who is subject to a nonadoptive legal guardianship order in
favour (solely or jointly with another
party) of a specified relevant person of
Northern Ireland (substituting ‘specified
relevant person of Northern Ireland’ for
‘qualifying British citizen’ in the entry for
‘person who is subject to a nonadoptive
legal guardianship order’ in this table); or
(c) is a person under the age of 18 years
who:
(i) is the direct descendant of the durable
partner of a specified relevant person of
Northern Ireland; or
(ii) has been adopted by the durable
partner of a specified relevant person of
Northern Ireland, in accordance with a
relevant adoption decision
in addition, ‘spouse or civil partner’
means the person described in subparagraph (a) of the entry for ‘family
member of a relevant EEA citizen’ in this
table
deportation
order

as the case may be:
(a) an order made under section 5(1) of
the Immigration Act 1971 by virtue of
regulation 32(3) of the EEA Regulations;
or
(b) an order made under section 5(1) of
the Immigration Act 1971 by virtue of
section 3(5) or section 3(6) of that Act in
respect of:
(i) conduct committed after the specified
date; or
(ii) conduct committed by the person
before the specified date where the
Secretary of State has decided that the
deportation order is justified on the
grounds of public policy, public security
or public health in accordance with
regulation 27 of the EEA Regulations,

irrespective of whether the EEA
Regulations apply to the person (except
that in regulation 27 for “with a right of
permanent residence under regulation
15” and “has a right of permanent
residence under regulation 15” read
“who has indefinite leave to enter or
remain under, or who, but for the making
of the deportation order, meets the
requirements of paragraph EU11, EU11A
or EU12 of, Appendix EU to the
Immigration Rules”; and for “an EEA
decision” read “a deportation decision”);
or
(c) an order made under section 5(1) of
the Immigration Act 1971 by virtue of
regulation 15(1)(b) of the Citizens’
Rights (Frontier Workers) (EU Exit)
Regulations 2020
in addition, for the avoidance of doubt,
(b) includes a deportation order made
under the Immigration Act 1971 in
accordance with section 32 of the UK
Borders Act 2007
durable
partner

(a) the applicant is, or (as the case may
be) was, in a durable relationship with
the relevant EEA citizen (or, as the case
may be, with the qualifying British
citizen), with the couple having lived
together in a relationship akin to a
marriage or civil partnership for at least
two years (unless there is other
significant evidence of the durable
relationship); and
(b) where the applicant was resident in
the UK and Islands as the durable
partner of a relevant EEA citizen before
the specified date, the applicant held a
relevant document as the durable
partner of the relevant EEA citizen or,
where there is evidence which satisfies
the entry clearance officer that the
applicant was otherwise lawfully resident
in the UK and Islands for the relevant
period before the specified date (or

where the applicant is a joining family
member) or where the applicant relies
on the relevant EEA citizen being a
relevant person of Northern Ireland,
there is evidence which satisfies the
entry clearance officer that the durable
partnership was formed and was durable
before the specified date; and
(c) it is, or (as the case may be) was, not
a durable partnership of convenience;
and
(d) neither party has, or (as the case
may be) had, another durable partner, a
spouse or a civil partner with (in any of
those circumstances) immigration status
in the UK or the Islands based on that
person’s relationship with that party
EEA citizen

person who is:
(a)(i) (and who before the specified date
was) a national of: Austria, Belgium,
Bulgaria, Croatia, Republic of Cyprus,
Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia,
Finland, France, Germany, Greece,
Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Latvia,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg,
Malta, Netherlands, Norway, Poland,
Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia,
Spain, Sweden or Switzerland; and
(ii) (unless they are a relevant
naturalised British citizen) not also a
British citizen; or
(b)(i) (and who before the specified date
was) a national of a country listed in subparagraph (a)(i) above; and
(ii) (where the applicant meets the
criteria in paragraph 9 of Schedule 6 to
the EEA Regulations as the family
member (“F”) to whom that paragraph
refers) a British citizen within the
meaning of the person (“P”) to whom
that paragraph refers; or
(c) (and who before the specified date
was) a relevant person of Northern
Ireland

EEA
Regulations

(a) (where relevant to something done
before the specified date) the
Immigration (European Economic Area)
Regulations 2016 (as they had effect
immediately before that date); or
(b) (where relevant to something done
after the specified date and before 1 July
2021) the Immigration (European
Economic Area) Regulations 2016 (as,
despite the revocation of those
Regulations, they continued to have
effect, with specified modifications, by
virtue of the Citizens’ Rights (Application
Deadline and Temporary Protection) (EU
Exit) Regulations 2020); or
(c) (where relevant to something done
on or after 1 July 2021) the Immigration
(European Economic Area) Regulations
2016 (as they had effect immediately
before they were revoked and, where
the context requires it, on the basis that
those Regulations had not been
revoked)

evidence of
birth

(a) (in the case of a child) the full birth
certificate(s) or other document(s)
which the entry clearance officer is
satisfied evidences that the applicant is
the direct descendant of (or otherwise a
child of) the relevant EEA citizen (or, as
the case may be, of the qualifying British
citizen) or of their spouse or civil partner,
as described (as the case may be) in
sub-paragraph (a)(i) or (a)(ii) of the entry
for ‘family member of a qualifying British
citizen’ in this table or in sub-paragraph
(a) of the entry for ‘family member of a
relevant EEA citizen’ in this table; or
(b) (in the case of a dependent parent)
the full birth certificate(s) or other
document(s) which the entry clearance
officer is satisfied evidences that the
applicant is the direct relative in the
ascending line of the relevant EEA
citizen (or, as the case may be, of the
qualifying British citizen) or of their
spouse or civil partner, as described in

subparagraph (a) above
exclusion
decision

a direction given by the Secretary of
State that a person must be excluded
from the UK:
(a) in respect of conduct committed after
the specified date; or
(b) in respect of conduct committed by
the person before the specified date,
where the Secretary of State is satisfied
that the direction is justified on the
grounds of public policy, public security
or public health in accordance with
regulation 27 of the EEA Regulations,
irrespective of whether the EEA
Regulations apply to that person (except
that in regulation 27 for “with a right of
permanent residence under regulation
15” and “has a right of permanent
residence under regulation 15” read
“who has indefinite leave to enter or
remain under, or who, but for the making
of the exclusion direction, meets the
requirements of paragraph EU11, EU11A
or EU12 of, Appendix EU to the
Immigration Rules”; and for “an EEA
decision” read “an exclusion direction”)

exclusion
order

an order made under regulation 23(5) of
the EEA Regulations

family
member of a
qualifying
British
citizen

a person who has satisfied the entry
clearance officer, including by the
required evidence of family
relationship, that:
(a) they will be returning to the UK:
(i) before 2300 GMT on 29 March 2022
(or later where the entry clearance
officer is satisfied that there are
reasonable grounds for the person’s
failure to meet that deadline), as the
spouse or civil partner of a qualifying
British citizen, and:
(aa)(aaa) the marriage was contracted
or the civil partnership was formed
before the date and time of withdrawal;

or
(bbb) the applicant was the durable
partner of the qualifying British citizen
before the date and time of withdrawal
(the definition of ‘durable partner’ in this
table being met before then rather than
at the date of application) and the
partnership remained durable at the date
and time of withdrawal; and
(bb)(aaa) the marriage or civil
partnership continues to exist at the date
of application; or
(bbb) the entry clearance officer is
satisfied that the marriage will be
contracted or the civil partnership will be
formed before the couple return to the
UK; or
(ii) (where sub-paragraph (a)(i)(aa)(bbb)
above does not apply) as the spouse or
civil partner of a qualifying British citizen,
and:
(aa) the marriage was contracted or the
civil partnership was formed after the
date and time of withdrawal and before
the specified date; and
(bb) the marriage or civil partnership
continues to exist at the date of
application; and
(cc) the entry clearance officer is
satisfied that there are reasonable
grounds why they did not return to the
UK with the qualifying British citizen
before the specified date; or
(iii) before 2300 GMT on 29 March 2022
(or later where the entry clearance
officer is satisfied that there are
reasonable grounds for the person’s
failure to meet that deadline), as the
durable partner of a qualifying British
citizen, and:
(aa) the partnership was formed and
was durable before the date and time of
withdrawal; and
(bb) the partnership remains durable at
the date of application; or
(iv) as the durable partner of a qualifying
British citizen, and:

(aa) the partnership was formed and
was durable after the date and time of
withdrawal and before the specified
date; and
(bb) the partnership remains durable at
the date of application; and
(cc) the entry clearance officer is
satisfied that there are reasonable
grounds why they did not return to the
UK with the qualifying British citizen
before the specified date; or
(v) before 2300 GMT on 29 March 2022
(or later where the entry clearance
officer is satisfied that there are
reasonable grounds for the person’s
failure to meet that deadline), as the
child or dependent parent of a qualifying
British citizen, and the family
relationship:
(aa) existed before the date and time of
withdrawal (unless, in the case of a
child, the person was born thereafter,
was adopted thereafter in accordance
with a relevant adoption decision or
thereafter became a child within the
meaning of that entry in this table on the
basis of one of sub-paragraphs (a)(iii) to
(a)(xi) of that entry); and
(bb) continues to exist at the date of
application; or
(vi) before 2300 GMT on 29 March 2022
(or later where the entry clearance
officer is satisfied that there are
reasonable grounds for the person’s
failure to meet that deadline), as the
child or dependent parent of the spouse
or civil partner of a qualifying British
citizen (as described in subparagraph (a)
(i) above), and all the family
relationships:
(aa) existed before the date and time of
withdrawal (unless, in the case of a
child, the person was born thereafter,
was adopted thereafter in accordance
with a relevant adoption decision or
thereafter became a child within the
meaning of that entry in this table on the

basis of one of sub-paragraphs (a)(iii) to
(a)(xi) of that entry); and
(bb) continue to exist at the date of
application; or
(vii) as the child or dependent parent of
the spouse or civil partner of a qualifying
British citizen (as described in
subparagraph (a)(ii) above), and:
(aa) the family relationship of the child or
dependent parent to the spouse or civil
partner existed before the date and time
of withdrawal (unless, in the case of a
child, the person was born thereafter,
was adopted thereafter in accordance
with a relevant adoption decision or
thereafter became a child within the
meaning of that entry in this table on the
basis of one of sub-paragraphs (a)(iii) to
(a)(xi) of that entry); and
(bb) all the family relationships continue
to exist at the date of application; and
(cc) the entry clearance officer is
satisfied that there are reasonable
grounds why the person did not return to
the UK with the qualifying British citizen
before the specified date; or
(viii) as the dependent relative of a
qualifying British citizen, or (as the
case may be) of their spouse or civil
partner (as described in sub-paragraph
(a)(i) or (a)(ii) above), and:
(aa) the family relationship and (in subparagraph (a)(ii) of the entry for
‘dependent relative of a qualifying British
citizen’ in this table) the person’s
dependency (or, as the case may be,
their membership of the household or
their strict need for personal care on
serious health grounds) existed before
the specified date and continue to exist
at the date of application; and
(bb) the entry clearance officer is
satisfied that there are reasonable
grounds why the person did not return to
the UK with the qualifying British citizen
before the specified date; or
(ix) as a person who the entry clearance

officer is satisfied by evidence provided
by the person that they would, if they
made a valid application under Appendix
EU to these Rules in the UK, be granted
(as the case may be) indefinite leave to
remain under paragraph EU2 of that
Appendix or limited leave to remain
under paragraph EU3 as a family
member who has retained the right of
residence by virtue of a relationship with
a qualifying British citizen (as defined in
Annex 1 to Appendix EU); and
(b) they satisfied the conditions in
regulation 9(2), (3) and (4)(a) of the EEA
Regulations (as the family member (“F”)
to whom those provisions refer) or, as
the case may be, the conditions in
regulation 9(1A)(b), (2), (3) and (4)(a) of
the EEA Regulations (as the extended
family member (“EFM”) to whom those
provisions refer), in either case doing so
(with the qualifying British citizen being
treated as the British citizen (“BC”) to
whom those provisions refer):
(i) (save in the case of a child as
described in sub-paragraph (a)(v), (a)(vi)
or (a)(vii) above who was born after the
specified date, was adopted thereafter in
accordance with a relevant adoption
decision or thereafter became a child
within the meaning of that entry in this
table on the basis of one of subparagraphs (a)(iii) to (a)(xi) of that entry)
before the specified date; and
(ii) (save where the date of application is
after the specified date and where those
conditions concern matters relevant to
the dependency referred to in subparagraph (b)(ii)(bb) of the entry for
‘child’ in this table or in sub-paragraph
(b)(ii) of the entry for ‘dependent parent’
in this table, or save where subparagraph (a)(ix) above applies) at the
date of application (or, in the case of the
qualifying British citizen where they have
returned to the UK before the applicant,
immediately before their return to the

UK)
in addition, where sub-paragraph (a)(ix)
above applies, the requirements in
paragraph FP6(2)(c) and (d) of this
Appendix do not apply
family
member of a
relevant
EEA citizen

a person who has satisfied the entry
clearance officer, including by the
required evidence of family relationship,
that they are:
(a) the spouse or civil partner of a
relevant EEA citizen, and:
(i)(aa) the marriage was contracted or
the civil partnership was formed before
the specified date; or
(bb) the applicant was the durable
partner of the relevant EEA citizen
before the specified date (the definition
of ‘durable partner’ in this table being
met before that date rather than at the
date of application) and the partnership
remained durable at the specified date;
and
(ii) the marriage or civil partnership
continues to exist at the date of
application; or
(b) the specified spouse or civil
partner of a Swiss citizen; or
(c) the durable partner of a relevant EEA
citizen, and:
(i) the partnership was formed and was
durable before the specified date; and
(ii) the partnership remains durable at
the date of application; and
(iii) the date of application is after the
specified date; and
(iv) where they were resident in the UK
and Islands as the durable partner of the
relevant EEA citizen before the specified
date, the definition of ‘durable partner’ in
this table was met before that date as
well as at the date of application, and the
partnership remained durable at the
specified date; or
(d) the child or dependent parent of a
relevant EEA citizen, and the family

relationship:
(i) existed before the specified date
(unless, in the case of a child, the
person was born after that date, was
adopted after that date in accordance
with a relevant adoption decision or after
that date became a child within the
meaning of that entry in this table on the
basis of one of sub-paragraphs (a)(iii) to
(a)(xi) of that entry); and
(ii) continues to exist at the date of
application; or
(e) the child or dependent parent of the
spouse or civil partner of a relevant EEA
citizen, as described in subparagraph (a)
above, and:
(i) the family relationship of the child or
dependent parent to the spouse or civil
partner existed before the specified date
(unless, in the case of a child, the
person was born after that date, was
adopted after that date in accordance
with a relevant adoption decision or after
that date became a child within the
meaning of that entry in this table on the
basis of one of sub-paragraphs (a)(iii) to
(a)(xi) of that entry); and
(ii) all the family relationships continue to
exist at the date of application; or
(f) a person who the entry clearance
officer is satisfied by evidence provided
by the person that they would, if they
had made a valid application under
Appendix EU to these Rules before 1
July 2021, have been granted (as the
case may be) indefinite leave to enter
under paragraph EU2 of that Appendix
or limited leave to enter under paragraph
EU3 and that leave would not have
lapsed or been cancelled, curtailed,
revoked or invalidated before the date of
application under this Appendix (and, in
respect of that application, the
requirements in paragraph FP6(1)(c)
and (d) of this Appendix do not apply):
(i) as a family member who has retained
the right of residence by virtue of a

relationship with a relevant EEA citizen
(as defined in Annex 1 to Appendix EU);
or
(ii)on the basis that condition 6 of
paragraph EU11 of Appendix EU is met;
or
(g) the dependent relative of a
specified relevant person of Northern
Ireland
in addition, where the person is a child
born after the specified date or adopted
after that date in accordance with a
relevant adoption decision, or after the
specified date they became a child
within the meaning of that entry in this
table on the basis of one of subparagraphs (a)(iii) to (a)(xi) of that entry
(and with the references to ‘parents’ in
subparagraph (a) below construed to
include the guardian or other person to
whom the order or other provision
referred to in the relevant sub-paragraph
of (a)(iii) to (a)(xi) of that entry relates),
they meet one of the following
requirements:
(a) (where sub-paragraph (b) below
does not apply), one of the following
requirements is met:
(i) both of their parents are a relevant
EEA citizen; or
(ii) one of their parents is a relevant EEA
citizen and the other is a British citizen
who is not a relevant EEA citizen; or
(iii) one of their parents is a relevant EEA
citizen who has sole or joint rights of
custody of them, in accordance with the
applicable rules of family law of the UK,
of the Islands or of a country listed in
sub-paragraph (a) of the entry for
‘specified EEA citizen’ in this table
(including applicable rules of private
international law under which rights of
custody under the law of a third country
are recognised in the UK, in the Islands
or in a country listed in subparagraph (a)
of the entry for ‘specified EEA citizen’ in

this table, in particular as regards the
best interests of the child, and without
prejudice to the normal operation of such
applicable rules of private international
law); or
(b) where they were born after the
specified date to (or adopted after that
date in accordance with a relevant
adoption decision by or after that date
became, within the meaning of the entry
for ‘child’ in this table and on the basis of
one of sub-paragraphs (a)(iii) to (a)(xi) of
that entry, a child of) a Swiss citizen or
their spouse or civil partner (as
described in the first sub-paragraph (a)
in this entry), the Swiss citizen or their
spouse or civil partner is a relevant EEA
citizen
frontier
worker

a person who:
(a) is a national of: Austria, Belgium,
Bulgaria, Croatia, Republic of Cyprus,
Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia,
Finland, France, Germany, Greece,
Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Latvia,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg,
Malta, Netherlands, Norway, Poland,
Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia,
Spain, Sweden or Switzerland; and
(b) is not a British citizen; and
(c) satisfies the Secretary of State by
relevant evidence of this that they fulfil
the relevant conditions of being a frontier
worker set out in the Citizens’ Rights
(Frontier Workers) (EU Exit) Regulations
2020, and that they have done so
continuously since the specified date;
and
(d) has not been (and is not to be)
refused admission to, or removed from,
the UK by virtue of the Citizens’ Rights
(Frontier Workers) (EU Exit) Regulations
2020, and is not subject to a relevant
restriction decision as defined by
regulation 2 of those Regulations

full birth
certificate

a birth certificate recognised in the UK or
the Islands which records the name of
the mother and (where registered) the
father

GMT

Greenwich Mean Time

immigration
status in the
UK or the
Islands

indefinite or limited leave to enter or
remain in the UK or the Islands under or
outside the relevant Immigration Rules;
exemption from immigration control; the
entitlement to reside in the UK or the
right of permanent residence in the UK
under regulations 13 to 15 of the EEA
Regulations; or the entitlement to reside
in the Islands or the right of permanent
residence in the Islands through the
application there of section 7(1) of the
Immigration Act 1988 (as it had effect
before it was repealed) or under the
Immigration (European Economic Area)
Regulations of the Isle of Man

Irish citizen

a person who is an Irish citizen as a
matter of Irish law

Islands
deportation
order

a deportation order as defined in
paragraph 3(6) of Schedule 4 to the
Immigration Act 1971 that was made:
(a) in respect of conduct committed after
the specified date and has effect in
relation to the person, by virtue of
paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to the
Immigration Act 1971, as if it was a
deportation order made under that Act;
or
(b) in respect of conduct committed by
the person before the specified date,
where the Secretary of State is satisfied
that the order is justified on the grounds
of public policy, public security or public
health in accordance with regulation 27
of the EEA Regulations, irrespective of
whether the EEA Regulations apply to
the person (except that in regulation 27
for “with a right of permanent residence
under regulation 15” and “has a right of

permanent residence under regulation
15” read “who has indefinite leave to
enter or remain under, or who, but for
the making of the deportation order,
meets the requirements of paragraph
EU11, EU11A or EU12 of, Appendix EU
to the Immigration Rules”; and for “an
EEA decision” read “a deportation
decision”)
Islands
exclusion
decision

a direction given by the relevant Minister
or other authority in the Islands that a
person must be excluded from the Island
concerned:
(a) in respect of conduct committed after
the specified date; or
(b) in respect of conduct committed by
the person before the specified date,
where the Secretary of State is satisfied
that the direction is justified on the
grounds of public policy, public security
or public health in accordance with
regulation 27 of the EEA Regulations,
irrespective of whether the EEA
Regulations apply to that person (except
that in regulation 27 for “with a right of
permanent residence under regulation
15” and “has a right of permanent
residence under regulation 15” read
“who has indefinite leave to enter or
remain under, or who, but for the making
of the exclusion direction, meets the
requirements of paragraph EU11, EU11A
or EU12 of, Appendix EU to the
Immigration Rules”; and for “an EEA
decision” read “an exclusion direction”)

joining
family
member

a person who is a family member of a
relevant EEA citizen (in accordance with
sub-paragraph (a)(i)(bb), (c), (d) or (e) –
together, where applicable, with the
second sub-paragraph (a) or the second
sub-paragraph (b) – of that entry in this
table) and who (save, in the case of a
child, where the person was born after
the specified date, was adopted after

that date in accordance with a relevant
adoption decision or after that date
became a child within the meaning of
that entry in this table on the basis of
one of sub-paragraphs (a)(iii) to (a)(xi) of
that entry):
(a) was not resident in the UK and
Islands at any time before the specified
date; or
(b) was resident in the UK and Islands
before the specified date, and:
(i) one of the events referred to in subparagraph (b)(i) or (b)(ii) in the entry for
‘continuous qualifying period’ in the table
at Annex 1 to Appendix EU to these
Rules has occurred, and after that event
occurred they were not resident in the
UK and Islands again before the
specified date; or
(ii) the event referred to in subparagraph (a) in the entry for
‘supervening event’ in the table at Annex
1 to Appendix EU to these Rules has
occurred, and after that event occurred
they were not resident in the UK and
Islands again before the specified date
non-EEA
citizen

a person who is not an EEA citizen and
is not a British citizen

person
exempt from
immigration
control

a person who:
(a) is a national of: Austria, Belgium,
Bulgaria, Croatia, Republic of Cyprus,
Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia,
Finland, France, Germany, Greece,
Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Latvia,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg,
Malta, Netherlands, Norway, Poland,
Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia,
Spain, Sweden or Switzerland; and
(b) is not a British citizen; and
(c) is exempt from immigration control in
accordance with section 8(2), (3) or (4)
of the Immigration Act 1971; and
(d) the entry clearance officer is
satisfied, including by the required
evidence of qualification, would have

been granted indefinite leave to enter or
remain or limited leave to enter or
remain under (as the case may be)
paragraph EU2 or EU3 of Appendix EU
to these Rules, if they had made a valid
application under it before 1 July 2021,
and that leave would not have lapsed or
been cancelled, curtailed, revoked or
invalidated before the date of application
under this Appendix
person who
is subject to
a nonadoptive
legal
guardianship
order

a person who has satisfied the entry
clearance officer that, immediately
before the specified date, they:
(a) are under the age of 18 years; and
(b) are subject to a non-adoptive legal
guardianship order in favour (solely or
jointly with another party) of a qualifying
British citizen that:
(i) is recognised under the national law
of the state in which it was contracted;
and
(ii) places parental responsibility on a
permanent basis on the qualifying British
citizen (solely or jointly with another
party); and
(c) have lived with the qualifying British
citizen since their placement under the
guardianship order; and
(d) have created family life with the
qualifying British citizen; and
(e) have a personal relationship with the
qualifying British citizen that involves
dependency on the qualifying British
citizen and the assumption of parental
responsibility, including legal and
financial responsibilities, for that person
by the qualifying British citizen

qualifying
British
citizen

a British citizen who:
(a)(i) (where sub-paragraph (a)(ii) or (a)
(iii) below does not apply) will be
returning to the UK with the applicant
before 2300 GMT on 29 March 2022 (or
later where the entry clearance officer is
satisfied that there are reasonable

grounds for the British citizen’s failure to
meet that deadline); or
(ii) (in the case of a family member of a
qualifying British citizen as described in
sub-paragraph (a)(ii), (a)(iv), (a)(vii) or
(a)(viii) of the entry for ‘family member of
a qualifying British citizen’ in this table)
will be returning to the UK with the
applicant and the entry clearance officer
is satisfied that there are reasonable
grounds why the British citizen did not
do so before the specified date; or
(iii) is the qualifying British citizen
referred to in sub-paragraph (a)(ix) of the
entry for ‘family member of a qualifying
British citizen’ in this table; and
(b) satisfied regulation 9(2), (3) and (4)
(a) of the EEA Regulations (as the
British citizen (“BC”) to whom those
provisions refer, with the applicant being
treated as the family member (“F”) or, as
the case may be, as the extended family
member (“EFM”), to whom those
provisions refer):
(i) (save where the applicant is a child as
described in sub-paragraph (a)(v), (a)(vi)
or (a)(vii) of the entry for ‘family member
of a qualifying British citizen’ in this table
who was born after the specified date,
was adopted thereafter in accordance
with a relevant adoption decision or
thereafter became a child within the
meaning of that entry in this table on the
basis of one of sub-paragraphs (a)(iii) to
(a)(xi) of that entry) before the specified
date; and
(ii) (save where sub-paragraph (a)(ix) of
the entry for ‘family member of a
qualifying British citizen’ in this table
applies) at the date of application (or,
where they have returned to the UK
before the applicant, immediately before
their return to the UK)
in addition:
(i) for the avoidance of doubt, for the
purposes of sub-paragraph (b) above,

service as a member of HM Forces (as
defined in the Armed Forces Act 2006)
in a country listed in sub-paragraph (a)(i)
of the entry for ‘EEA citizen’ in this table
may satisfy the conditions of being a
“worker” for the purposes of the EEA
Regulations; and
(ii) for the purposes of sub-paragraph (i)
immediately above, sub-paragraph (a)(i)
of the entry for ‘EEA citizen’ in this table
will be treated as referring also to the
Sovereign Base Areas on Cyprus
relevant
adoption
decision

a decision taken:
(a) by the competent administrative
authority or court in the UK or the
Islands; or
(b) by the competent administrative
authority or court in a country whose
adoption orders are recognised by the
UK or the Islands; or
(c) in a particular case in which that
decision in another country has been
recognised in the UK or the Islands as
an adoption

relevant
document

(a) a family permit (or a letter from the
Secretary of State, issued after 30 June
2021, confirming the person’s
qualification for one), residence card or
permanent residence card issued by the
UK under the EEA Regulations (or the
equivalent document or other evidence
issued by the Islands under the relevant
legislation there evidencing the
entitlement to enter or reside in the
Islands or the right of permanent
residence in the Islands through the
application there of section 7(1) of the
Immigration Act 1988 (as it had effect
before it was repealed) or under the
Immigration (European Economic Area)
Regulations of the Isle of Man); and
(b) it was not subsequently revoked, or
fell to be so, because the relationship or
dependency had never existed or the

relationship or (where relevant)
dependency had ceased; and
(c) (in relation to an application for an
EU Settlement Scheme Family Permit) it
has not expired or otherwise ceased to
be effective, or it remained valid for the
period of residence relied upon
relevant
EEA citizen
(where the
date of
application
under this
Appendix is
before 1 July
2021)

(a) an EEA citizen (in accordance with
sub-paragraph (a) of that entry in this
table) who:
(i) has been granted indefinite leave to
enter or remain or limited leave to enter
or remain under (as the case may be)
paragraph EU2 or EU3 of Appendix EU
to these Rules (or under its equivalent in
the Islands), which has not lapsed or
been cancelled, curtailed, revoked or
invalidated and which is evidenced by
the Home Office reference number for
that grant of leave (or by the equivalent
evidence in the Islands); or
(ii) at the date of decision on the
application under this Appendix, the
entry clearance officer is satisfied from
the information available to them has
been granted indefinite leave to enter or
remain or limited leave to enter or
remain under (as the case may be)
paragraph EU2 or EU3 of Appendix EU
to these Rules, which has not lapsed or
been cancelled, curtailed, revoked or
invalidated; or
(iii) the entry clearance officer is
satisfied, including by the required
evidence of qualification, would have
been granted indefinite leave to enter or
remain or limited leave to enter or
remain under (as the case may be)
paragraph EU2 or EU3 of Appendix EU
to these Rules, if they had made a valid
application under it before 1 July 2021,
and that leave would not have lapsed or
been cancelled, curtailed, revoked or
invalidated before the date of application
under this Appendix; or
(b) an EEA citizen (in accordance with

sub-paragraph (a) of that entry in this
table) who is a relevant naturalised
British citizen; or
(c) (where the applicant is the family
member (“F”) to whom paragraph 9 of
Schedule 6 to the EEA Regulations
refers and meets the criteria as F in that
paragraph) an EEA citizen (in
accordance with sub-paragraph (b) of
that entry in this table) who the entry
clearance officer is satisfied, including by
the required evidence of qualification,
would (but for the fact that they are a
British citizen) have been granted
indefinite leave to enter or remain or
limited leave to enter or remain under
(as the case may be) paragraph EU2 or
EU3 of Appendix EU to these Rules, if
they had made a valid application under
it before 1 July 2021, and that leave
would not have lapsed or been
cancelled, curtailed, revoked or
invalidated before the date of application
under this Appendix; or
(d) an EEA citizen (in accordance with
sub-paragraph (c) of that entry in this
table) who:
(i) where they are a relevant person of
Northern Ireland in accordance with subparagraph (a)(ii) of that entry in this
table:
(aa) has been granted indefinite leave to
enter or remain or limited leave to enter
or remain under (as the case may be)
paragraph EU2 or EU3 of Appendix EU
to these Rules (or under its equivalent in
the Islands), which has not lapsed or
been cancelled, curtailed, revoked or
invalidated and which is evidenced by
the Home Office reference number for
that grant of leave (or by the equivalent
evidence in the Islands); or
(bb) at the date of decision on the
application under this Appendix, the
entry clearance officer is satisfied from
the information available to them has
been granted indefinite leave to enter or

remain or limited leave to enter or
remain under (as the case may be)
paragraph EU2 or EU3 of Appendix EU
to these Rules, which has not lapsed or
been cancelled, curtailed, revoked or
invalidated; or
(cc) the entry clearance officer is
satisfied, including by the required
evidence of qualification, would have
been granted indefinite leave to enter or
remain or limited leave to enter or
remain under (as the case may be)
paragraph EU2 or EU3 of Appendix EU
to these Rules, if they had made a valid
application under it before 1 July 2021,
and that leave would not have lapsed or
been cancelled, curtailed, revoked or
invalidated before the date of application
under this Appendix; or
(ii) where they are a relevant person of
Northern Ireland in accordance with subparagraph (a)(i) or (a)(iii) of that entry in
this table, the entry clearance officer is
satisfied, including by the required
evidence of qualification, would (but for
the fact that they are a British citizen)
have been granted indefinite leave to
enter or remain or limited leave to enter
or remain under (as the case may be)
paragraph EU2 or EU3 of Appendix EU
to these Rules, if they had made a valid
application under it before 1 July 2021,
and that leave would not have lapsed or
been cancelled, curtailed, revoked or
invalidated before the date of application
under this Appendix; or
(e) a person exempt from immigration
control; or
(f) a frontier worker
in addition, references in this entry to
indefinite leave to enter or remain or
limited leave to enter or remain granted
under paragraph EU2 or EU3 of
Appendix EU to these Rules (or under its
equivalent in the Islands) exclude such
leave where it was granted in error.

relevant
EEA citizen
(where the
date of
application
under this
Appendix is
on or after 1
July 2021)

(a) an EEA citizen (in accordance with
sub-paragraph (a) of that entry in this
table) who:
(i) has been granted indefinite leave to
enter or remain or limited leave to enter
or remain under (as the case may be)
paragraph EU2 or EU3 of Appendix EU
to these Rules (or under its equivalent in
the Islands), which has not lapsed or
been cancelled, curtailed, revoked or
invalidated and which is evidenced by
the Home Office reference number for
that grant of leave (or by the equivalent
evidence in the Islands); or
(ii) at the date of decision on the
application under this Appendix, the
entry clearance officer is satisfied from
the information available to them has
been granted indefinite leave to enter or
remain or limited leave to enter or
remain under (as the case may be)
paragraph EU2 or EU3 of Appendix EU
to these Rules, which has not lapsed or
been cancelled, curtailed, revoked or
invalidated; or
(iii) (in the case of an Irish citizen who
has not been granted indefinite leave to
enter or remain or limited leave to enter
or remain under (as the case may be)
paragraph EU2 or EU3 of Appendix EU
to these Rules or under its equivalent in
the Islands, where the applicant does
not rely on that person being a relevant
person of Northern Ireland) the entry
clearance officer is satisfied, including by
the required evidence of qualification,
would have been granted such leave
under that Appendix, if they had made a
valid application under it before 1 July
2021, and that leave would not have
lapsed or been cancelled, curtailed,
revoked or invalidated before the date of
application under this Appendix; or
(iv) the applicant satisfies the entry
clearance officer by relevant information
and evidence provided with the

application (including their valid passport
or valid national identity card as an EEA
citizen, which is the original document
and not a copy) meets sub-paragraph
(a)(i) of the definition of ‘relevant EEA
citizen (where, in respect of the
application under consideration, the date
of application by the relevant EEA citizen
or their family member is on or after 1
July 2021)’ in Annex 1 to Appendix EU
to these Rules, such that the applicant is
a ‘family member of a relevant EEA
citizen’ (as defined in Annex 1 to
Appendix EU); or
(b) an EEA citizen (in accordance with
sub-paragraph (a) of that entry in this
table) who is a relevant naturalised
British citizen; or
(c) (where the applicant is the family
member (“F”) to whom paragraph 9 of
Schedule 6 to the EEA Regulations
refers and meets the criteria as F in that
paragraph) an EEA citizen (in
accordance with sub-paragraph (b) of
that entry in this table) who the entry
clearance officer is satisfied, including by
the required evidence of qualification,
would (but for the fact that they are a
British citizen) have been granted
indefinite leave to enter or remain or
limited leave to enter or remain under
(as the case may be) paragraph EU2 or
EU3 of Appendix EU to these Rules, if
they had made a valid application under
it before 1 July 2021, and that leave
would not have lapsed or been
cancelled, curtailed, revoked or
invalidated before the date of application
under this Appendix; or
(d) an EEA citizen (in accordance with
sub-paragraph (c) of that entry in this
table) who:
(i) where they are a relevant person of
Northern Ireland in accordance with subparagraph (a)(ii) of that entry in this
table:
(aa) has been granted indefinite leave to

enter or remain or limited leave to enter
or remain under (as the case may be)
paragraph EU2 or EU3 of Appendix EU
to these Rules (or under its equivalent in
the Islands), which has not lapsed or
been cancelled, curtailed, revoked or
invalidated and which is evidenced by
the Home Office reference number for
that grant of leave (or by the equivalent
evidence in the Islands); or
(bb) at the date of decision on the
application under this Appendix, the
entry clearance officer is satisfied from
the information available to them has
been granted indefinite leave to enter or
remain or limited leave to enter or
remain under (as the case may be)
paragraph EU2 or EU3 of Appendix EU
to these Rules, which has not lapsed or
been cancelled, curtailed, revoked or
invalidated; or
(cc) the entry clearance officer is
satisfied, including by the required
evidence of qualification, would have
been granted indefinite leave to enter or
remain or limited leave to enter or
remain under (as the case may be)
paragraph EU2 or EU3 of Appendix EU
to these Rules, if they had made a valid
application under it before 1 July 2021,
and that leave would not have lapsed or
been cancelled, curtailed, revoked or
invalidated before the date of application
under this Appendix; or
(ii) where they are a relevant person of
Northern Ireland in accordance with subparagraph (a)(i) or (a)(iii) of that entry in
this table, the entry clearance officer is
satisfied, including by the required
evidence of qualification, would (but for
the fact that they are a British citizen
and, where they are a specified relevant
person of Northern Ireland in
accordance with that entry in this table,
but, where applicable, for that fact) have
been granted indefinite leave to enter or
remain or limited leave to enter or

remain under (as the case may be)
paragraph EU2 or EU3 of Appendix EU
to these Rules, if they had made a valid
application under it before 1 July 2021,
and that leave would not have lapsed or
been cancelled, curtailed, revoked or
invalidated before the date of application
under this Appendix; or
(e) a person exempt from immigration
control; or
(f) a frontier worker
in addition, references in this entry to
indefinite leave to enter or remain or
limited leave to enter or remain granted
under paragraph EU2 or EU3 of
Appendix EU to these Rules (or under its
equivalent in the Islands) exclude such
leave where it was granted in error.

relevant
naturalised
British
citizen

a person who is (and who before the
specified date was) a national of:
Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia,
Republic of Cyprus, Czech Republic,
Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France,
Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland,
Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein,
Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta,
Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal,
Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain,
Sweden or Switzerland, and who:
(a) comes within paragraph (b) of the
definition of “EEA national” in regulation
2(1) of the EEA Regulations; and
(b) meets the criteria contained in
regulation 9A(2) or (3) as the dual
national (“DN”) to whom those provisions
refer (save for the requirement in
regulation 4(1)(c)(ii) and (d)(ii) of the
EEA Regulations for comprehensive
sickness insurance cover in the UK and
regardless of whether they otherwise
remained a qualified person under
regulation 6 of the EEA Regulations after
they acquired British citizenship); and
(c) the entry clearance officer is

satisfied, including by the required
evidence of qualification, would (but for
the fact that they are a British citizen)
have been granted indefinite leave to
enter or remain or limited leave to enter
or remain under (as the case may be)
paragraph EU2 or EU3 of Appendix EU
to these Rules, if they had made a valid
application under it before 1 July 2021,
and that leave would not have lapsed or
been cancelled, curtailed, revoked or
invalidated before the date of application
under this Appendix
relevant
person of
Northern
Ireland

a person who:
(a) is:
(i) a British citizen; or
(ii) an Irish citizen; or
(iii) a British citizen and an Irish citizen;
and
(b) was born in Northern Ireland and, at
the time of the person’s birth, at least
one of their parents was:
(i) a British citizen; or
(ii) an Irish citizen; or
(iii) a British citizen and an Irish citizen;
or
(iv) otherwise entitled to reside in
Northern Ireland without any restriction
on their period of residence

required
application
process

the relevant on-line application form and
a relevant process set out in that form
for providing the required proof of
identity and nationality and for providing
the required biometrics

required
biometrics

(a) a facial photograph of the applicant
(within the meaning of “biometric
information” in section 15 of the UK
Borders Act 2007); and
(b) the fingerprints of the applicant (also
within that meaning of “biometric
information”; unless, in accordance with
guidance published by the Secretary of
State and in force at the date of

application, they are not required to
provide these),
in both cases provided in accordance
with the required application process
required
evidence of
being a
relevant
person of
Northern
Ireland

(a) the person’s birth certificate showing
that they were born in Northern Ireland,
or their passport where this shows that
they were born in Northern Ireland; and
(b) evidence which satisfies the entry
clearance officer that, at the time of the
person’s birth, at least one of their
parents was:
(i) a British citizen; or
(ii) an Irish citizen; or
(iii) a British citizen and an Irish citizen;
or
(iv) otherwise entitled to reside in
Northern Ireland without any restriction
on their period of residence
in addition:
(a) where, in order to meet the
requirements of this entry, the applicant
submits a copy (and not the original) of a
document (including by uploading this as
part of the required application process),
the entry clearance officer can require
the applicant to submit the original
document where the entry clearance
officer has reasonable doubt as to the
authenticity of the copy submitted; and
(b) where, in order to meet the
requirements of this entry, the applicant
submits a document which is not in
English, the entry clearance officer can
require the applicant to provide a
certified English translation of (or a
Multilingual Standard Form to
accompany) the document, where this is
necessary for the purposes of deciding
whether the applicant meets the
eligibility requirements for an entry
clearance to be granted under this
Appendix

required
evidence of
family
relationship

in the case of:
(a) a spouse:
(i) a relevant document as the spouse of
the relevant EEA citizen (or, as the case
may be, of the qualifying British citizen),
or a valid document of record of a
marriage recognised under the law of
England and Wales, Scotland or
Northern Ireland or of the Islands; and
(ii)(aa) where the marriage to the
relevant EEA citizen was contracted
after the specified date and the applicant
is not the specified spouse or civil
partner of a Swiss citizen, a relevant
document as the durable partner of the
relevant EEA citizen or, where the
applicant was not resident in the UK and
Islands as the durable partner of the
relevant EEA citizen before the specified
date (or there is evidence which satisfies
the entry clearance officer that the
applicant was otherwise lawfully resident
in the UK and Islands for the relevant
period before the specified date, or the
applicant is a joining family member) or
where the applicant relies on the
relevant EEA citizen being a relevant
person of Northern Ireland, there is
evidence which satisfies the entry
clearance officer that the durable
partnership was formed and was durable
before the specified date; or
(bb) where the marriage to the qualifying
British citizen was contracted after the
date and time of withdrawal, evidence
which satisfies the entry clearance
officer that the durable partnership was
formed and was durable before the date
and time of withdrawal; or
(b) a civil partner:
(i) a relevant document as the civil
partner of the relevant EEA citizen (or,
as the case may be, of the qualifying
British citizen); a valid civil partnership
certificate recognised under the law of
England and Wales, Scotland or
Northern Ireland or under any equivalent

legislation in the Islands; or the valid
overseas registration document for a
relationship which is entitled to be
treated as a civil partnership under the
Civil Partnership Act 2004 or under any
equivalent legislation in the Islands; and
(ii)(aa) where the civil partnership with
the relevant EEA citizen was formed
after the specified date and the applicant
is not the specified spouse or civil
partner of a Swiss citizen, a relevant
document as the durable partner of the
relevant EEA citizen or, where the
applicant was not resident in the UK and
Islands as the durable partner of the
relevant EEA citizen before the specified
date (or there is evidence which satisfies
the entry clearance officer that the
applicant was otherwise lawfully resident
in the UK and Islands for the relevant
period before the specified date, or the
applicant is a joining family member) or
where the applicant relies on the
relevant EEA citizen being a relevant
person of Northern Ireland, there is
evidence which satisfies the entry
clearance officer that the durable
partnership was formed and was durable
before the specified date; or
(bb) where the civil partnership with the
qualifying British citizen was formed after
the date and time of withdrawal,
evidence which satisfies the entry
clearance officer that the durable
partnership was formed and was durable
before the date and time of withdrawal;
or
(c) a child – a relevant document issued
on the basis of the relevant family
relationship or their evidence of birth,
and:
(i) where the applicant is aged 21 years
or over, evidence which satisfies the
entry clearance officer that the
requirements in sub-paragraph (b)(ii) of
the entry for ‘child’ in this table are met;
and

(ii) where, in the case of a family
member of a relevant EEA citizen, the
applicant is a child born after the
specified date or adopted after that date
in accordance with a relevant adoption
decision, or after the specified date
became a child within the meaning of
that entry in this table on the basis of
one of sub-paragraphs (a)(iii) to (a)(xi) of
that entry, evidence which satisfies the
entry clearance officer that the
requirements in the second subparagraph (a) or the second subparagraph (b) of the entry for ‘family
member of a relevant EEA citizen’ in this
table are met; or
(d) a dependent parent – a relevant
document issued on the basis of the
relevant family relationship or their
evidence of birth and, where the first
sub-paragraph (b) of the entry for
‘dependent parent’ in this table applies,
evidence which satisfies the entry
clearance officer that (where this is not
assumed) the requirement as to
dependency in that subparagraph is met;
or
(e) a durable partner:
(i)(aa) (where the applicant was resident
in the UK and Islands as the durable
partner of a relevant EEA citizen before
the specified date and is not a joining
family member) a relevant document as
the durable partner of the relevant EEA
citizen or, where there is evidence which
satisfies the entry clearance officer that
the applicant was otherwise lawfully
resident in the UK and Islands for the
relevant period before the specified date
or where the applicant relies on the
relevant EEA citizen being a relevant
person of Northern Ireland, evidence
which satisfies the entry clearance
officer that the durable partnership was
formed and was durable before the
specified date; or
(bb) (where the applicant was not

resident in the UK and Islands as the
durable partner of a relevant EEA citizen
before the specified date, or where the
applicant is a joining family member, and
where sub-paragraph (e)(i)(cc) below
does not apply) evidence which satisfies
the entry clearance officer that the
durable partnership with the relevant
EEA citizen was formed and was durable
before the specified date; or
(cc) evidence which satisfies the entry
clearance officer that the durable
partnership with the qualifying British
citizen was formed and was durable (in
the case of a family member of a
qualifying British citizen as described in
sub-paragraph (a)(iii) of that entry in this
table) before the date and time of
withdrawal or (in the case of a family
member of a qualifying British citizen as
described in sub-paragraph (a)(iv) of that
entry in this table) before the specified
date; and
(ii) evidence which satisfies the entry
clearance officer that the partnership
remains durable at the date of
application; or
(f) a dependent relative of a qualifying
British citizen – evidence which satisfies
the entry clearance officer that the family
relationship and (in sub-paragraph (a)(ii)
of the entry for ‘dependent relative of a
qualifying British citizen’ in this table) the
person’s dependency (or, as the case
may be, their membership of the
household or their strict need for
personal care on serious health
grounds) existed before the specified
date and continue to exist at the date of
application; or
(g) a dependent relative of a specified
relevant person of Northern Ireland –
evidence which satisfies the entry
clearance officer that the family
relationship and (in sub-paragraph (a)(ii)
of the entry for ‘dependent relative of a
specified relevant person of Northern

Ireland’ in this table) the person’s
dependency (or, as the case may be,
their membership of the household or
their strict need for personal care on
serious health grounds) existed before
the specified date and continue to exist
at the date of application
in addition:
(a) where, in order to meet the
requirements of this entry, the applicant
submits a copy (and not the original) of a
document (including by uploading this as
part of the required application process),
the entry clearance officer can require
the applicant to submit the original
document where the entry clearance
officer has reasonable doubt as to the
authenticity of the copy submitted; and
(b) where, in order to meet the
requirements of this entry, the applicant
submits a document which is not in
English, the entry clearance officer can
require the applicant to provide a
certified English translation of (or a
Multilingual Standard Form to
accompany) the document, where this is
necessary for the purposes of deciding
whether the applicant meets the
eligibility requirements for an entry
clearance to be granted under this
Appendix
required
evidence of
qualification

(a) (in the case of a relevant EEA citizen
(or, where the date of application under
this Appendix is on or after 1 July 2021,
an Irish citizen) who has not been
granted indefinite leave to enter or
remain or limited leave to enter or
remain under (as the case may be)
paragraph EU2 or EU3 of Appendix EU
to these Rules or under its equivalent in
the Islands, where the applicant does
not rely on the relevant EEA citizen
(where they are an Irish citizen) being a
relevant person of Northern Ireland):

(i) their passport or national identity card
as an EEA citizen or, where the date of
application under this Appendix is on or
after 1 July 2021, as an Irish citizen,
which is:
(aa) valid; and
(bb) the original document and not a
copy; and
(ii) information or evidence which
satisfies the entry clearance officer that
the person would have been granted
indefinite leave to enter or remain or
limited leave to enter or remain under
(as the case may be) paragraph EU2 or
EU3 of Appendix EU to these Rules, if
they had made a valid application under
it before 1 July 2021, and that leave
would not have lapsed or been
cancelled, curtailed, revoked or
invalidated before the date of application
under this Appendix; or
(b) (in the case of a relevant EEA citizen
who is a relevant naturalised British
citizen or who is a relevant EEA citizen
as described in sub-paragraph (c) of the
applicable entry for ‘relevant EEA citizen’
in this table):
(i) their passport or national identity card
as an EEA citizen, which is:
(aa) valid; and
(bb) the original document and not a
copy; and
(ii) information or evidence which is
provided by the applicant, or is otherwise
available to the entry clearance officer,
which satisfies the entry clearance
officer that the relevant EEA citizen is a
British citizen; and
(iii) information or evidence which
satisfies the entry clearance officer that
the person would (but for the fact that
they are a British citizen) have been
granted indefinite leave to enter or
remain or limited leave to enter or
remain under (as the case may be)
paragraph EU2 or EU3 of Appendix EU
to these Rules, if they had made a valid

application under it before 1 July 2021,
and that leave would not have lapsed or
been cancelled, curtailed, revoked or
invalidated before the date of application
under this Appendix; or
(c) (in the case of a relevant EEA citizen
who is relied on by the applicant as
being a relevant person of Northern
Ireland, and who, where they are a
relevant person of Northern Ireland in
accordance with sub-paragraph (a)(ii) of
that entry in this table, has not been
granted indefinite leave to enter or
remain or limited leave to enter or
remain under (as the case may be)
paragraph EU2 or EU3 of Appendix EU
to these Rules or under its equivalent in
the Islands) the required evidence of
being a relevant person of Northern
Ireland and (where the relevant EEA
citizen is relied on by the applicant as
being a specified relevant person of
Northern Ireland) information or
evidence which satisfies the entry
clearance officer that the requirements
of that entry in this table are met, and (in
all cases):
(i)(aa) (where they are a British citizen)
information or evidence which is
provided by the applicant, or is otherwise
available to the entry clearance officer,
which satisfies the entry clearance
officer that the person is a British citizen;
or
(bb) (where they are an Irish citizen)
their passport or national identity card as
an Irish citizen, which is:
(aaa) valid; and
(bbb) the original document and not a
copy; or
(cc) (where they are a British citizen and
an Irish citizen, and are not relied on by
the applicant as being a specified
relevant person of Northern Ireland) the
evidence required by sub-paragraph (c)
(i)(aa) or (c)(i)(bb) above; and
(ii) information or evidence which

satisfies the entry clearance officer that
the person would (but for the fact that
they are a British citizen, where they are
a British citizen in accordance with subparagraph (a)(i) or (a)(iii) of the entry for
‘relevant person of Northern Ireland’ in
this table) have been granted indefinite
leave to enter or remain or limited leave
to enter or remain under (as the case
may be) paragraph EU2 or EU3 of
Appendix EU to these Rules, if they had
made a valid application under it before
1 July 2021, and that leave would not
have lapsed or been cancelled,
curtailed, revoked or invalidated before
the date of application under this
Appendix; or
(d) (in the case of a relevant EEA citizen
who is a person exempt from
immigration control):
(i) their passport or national identity card
as an EEA citizen, which is:
(aa) valid; and
(bb) the original document and not a
copy; and
(ii) information or evidence which is
provided by the applicant, or is otherwise
available to the entry clearance officer,
which satisfies the entry clearance
officer that the relevant EEA citizen is
exempt from immigration control in
accordance with section 8(2), (3) or (4)
of the Immigration Act 1971; and
(iii) information or evidence which
satisfies the entry clearance officer that
the person would have been granted
indefinite leave to enter or remain or
limited leave to enter or remain under
(as the case may be) paragraph EU2 or
EU3 of Appendix EU to these Rules, if
they had made a valid application under
it before 1 July 2021, and that leave
would not have lapsed or been
cancelled, curtailed, revoked or
invalidated before the date of application
under this Appendix

in addition:
(a) ‘valid’ here means, in respect of a
document, that it is genuine and has not
expired or been cancelled or invalidated;
and
(b) where, in order to meet the
requirements of sub-paragraph (a)(ii), (b)
(ii), (b)(iii), (c)(i)(aa), (c)(ii), (d)(ii) or (d)
(iii) above, the applicant submits a copy
(and not the original) of a document, the
entry clearance officer can require the
applicant to submit the original
document where the entry clearance
officer has reasonable doubt as to the
authenticity of the copy submitted; and
(c) where, in order to meet the
requirements of sub-paragraph (a)(ii), (b)
(ii), (b)(iii), (c)(i)(aa), (c)(ii), (d)(ii) or (d)
(iii) above, the applicant submits a
document which is not in English, the
entry clearance officer can require the
applicant to provide a certified English
translation of (or a Multilingual Standard
Form to accompany) the document,
where this is necessary for the purposes
of deciding whether the applicant meets
the eligibility requirements for an entry
clearance to be granted under this
Appendix
required
proof of
identity and
nationality

(a) in the case of an EEA citizen (in
accordance with sub-paragraph (a) of
that entry in this table):
(i) their valid passport; or
(ii) their valid national identity card; or
(b) in the case of a non-EEA citizen,
their valid passport,
unless (in the case of (a) or (b)) the entry
clearance officer agrees to accept
alternative evidence of identity and
nationality where the applicant is unable
to obtain or produce the required
document due to circumstances beyond
their control or to compelling practical or
compassionate reasons

in addition, ‘valid’ here means that, at
the date of application, the document is
genuine and has not expired or been
cancelled or invalidated
specified
date

2300 GMT on 31 December 2020

specified
EEA family
permit case

a person who:
(a) on the basis of a valid application
made under the EEA Regulations before
the specified date, would, had the route
not closed after 30 June 2021, have
been issued an EEA family permit under
regulation 12 of the EEA Regulations:
(i)(aa) as an extended family member
under regulation 8; and
(bb) where the “relevant EEA national”
referred to in regulation 12(4) was
resident in the UK in accordance with
regulation 12(1)(a)(i) before the specified
date; or
(ii)(aa) as a person with a derivative right
to reside in the UK by virtue of regulation
16(1); and
(bb) where, pursuant to regulation 12(2),
any person from whom the right to be
admitted to the UK under the criteria in
regulation 11(5) was derived was
resident in the UK before the specified
date; or
(b) after the specified date and before 1
June 2021 was issued an EEA family
permit under regulation 12 of the EEA
Regulations, has contacted the Home
Office to advise that they were not able
to travel to the UK by 30 June 2021, and
the entry clearance officer is satisfied by
information or evidence provided by the
person that there were compelling
practical or compassionate reasons or
COVID-19 related reasons why they
were not able to travel to the UK by 30
June 2021; or
(c) on or after 1 June 2021 was issued
an EEA family permit under regulation
12 of the EEA Regulations with an expiry

date of 30 June 2021, and has contacted
the Home Office to advise that they were
not able to travel to the UK by 30 June
2021
in addition, there must not have been a
significant change in circumstances
since the date on which the person was
issued an EEA family permit under
regulation 12 of the EEA Regulations (or,
as the case may be, since the date on
which the person’s appeal against the
refusal of such a family permit was
allowed or on which they would
otherwise have been issued one, had
the route not closed after 30 June 2021),
such that it is not appropriate for them to
be granted an entry clearance under this
Appendix
specified
relevant
person of
Northern
Ireland

(a) the person is a relevant person of
Northern Ireland in accordance with subparagraph (a)(i) or (a)(iii) of that entry in
this table; and
(b) the applicant is a non-EEA citizen;
and
(c)(i)(aa) the applicant meets the
definition of ‘joining family member of a
relevant sponsor’ in Annex 1 to
Appendix EU to these Rules where the
person is their relevant sponsor; and
(bb) the applicant has satisfied the entry
clearance officer by relevant information
or evidence provided with the application
that, due to compelling practical or
compassionate reasons, it was not
possible for the person to return to the
UK before the specified date while the
applicant remained outside the UK; or
(ii)(aa) the applicant is a dependent
relative of a specified relevant person of
Northern Ireland; and
(bb) the person:
(i) is outside the UK; or
(ii) is in the UK and has been so for a
period not exceeding three months; or
(iii) is in the UK and (were they an “EEA

national” in accordance with regulation
2(1) of the EEA Regulations) they were
residing in the UK in accordance with the
EEA Regulations on 30 June 2021
specified
sponsor
evidence

(a)(i) (where the applicant relies on the
relevant EEA citizen meeting subparagraph (a)(i) of the definition of
‘relevant EEA citizen (where the date of
application under this Appendix is on or
after 1 July 2021)’ in this table) the
Home Office reference number (or the
equivalent evidence in the Islands) for
indefinite leave to enter or remain or
limited leave to enter or remain granted
to the relevant EEA citizen under (as the
case may be) paragraph EU2 or EU3 of
Appendix EU to these Rules (or under its
equivalent in the Islands) and held by
them at the date of application; or
(ii) (where sub-paragraph (a)(i) above
does not apply) information or evidence
which appears to the entry clearance
officer to indicate that the relevant EEA
citizen meets the definition of ‘relevant
EEA citizen (where the date of
application under this Appendix is on or
after 1 July 2021)’ in this table; and
(b)(i) where the applicant relies on being:
(aa) the spouse of the relevant EEA
citizen: a relevant document issued on
that basis or a valid document of record
of a marriage recognised under the law
of England and Wales, Scotland or
Northern Ireland or of the Islands; or
(bb) the civil partner of the relevant EEA
citizen: a relevant document issued on
that basis; a valid civil partnership
certificate recognised under the law of
England and Wales, Scotland or
Northern Ireland or under any equivalent
legislation in the Islands; or the valid
overseas registration document for a
relationship which is entitled to be
treated as a civil partnership under the
Civil Partnership Act 2004 or under any
equivalent legislation in the Islands; or

(cc) the child of the relevant EEA citizen
or of their spouse or civil partner: a
relevant document issued on that basis
or their evidence of birth; or
(dd) the dependent parent of the
relevant EEA citizen or of their spouse or
civil partner: a relevant document issued
on that basis or their evidence of birth; or
(ii) (where sub-paragraph (b)(i) above
does not apply) information or evidence
which appears to the entry clearance
officer to indicate that the family
relationship on which the applicant relies
is within the scope of the definition of
‘family member of a relevant EEA citizen’
in this table
in addition:
(a) ‘valid’ here means, in respect of a
document, that it is genuine and has not
expired or been cancelled or invalidated;
and
(b) where the applicant submits a copy
(and not the original) of a document, the
entry clearance officer can require the
applicant to submit the original
document where the entry clearance
officer has reasonable doubt as to the
authenticity of the copy submitted; and
(c) the requirements in the first subparagraph (a) in this entry do not apply
where the applicant relies on being a
family member who has retained the
right of residence by virtue of a
relationship with a relevant EEA citizen
(as defined in Annex 1 to Appendix EU
to these Rules) or on condition 6 of
paragraph EU11 of Appendix EU being
met
specified
spouse or
civil partner
of a Swiss
citizen

(a) the person is the spouse or civil
partner of a relevant EEA citizen (in
accordance, where the date of
application is before 1 July 2021, with
sub-paragraph (a) of the applicable entry
for ‘relevant EEA citizen’ in this table or,

where the date of application is on or
after 1 July 2021, with subparagraph (a)
(i) or (a)(ii) of the applicable entry for
‘relevant EEA citizen’ in this table), who
is a national of Switzerland and who is
not also a British citizen; and
(b) the marriage was contracted or the
civil partnership was formed after the
specified date and before 1 January
2026; and
(c) the marriage or civil partnership
continues to exist at the date of
application
spouse

(a) the person is party to a marriage with
a relevant EEA citizen (or, as the case
may be, with a qualifying British citizen)
and the marriage is recognised under
the law of England and Wales, Scotland
or Northern Ireland or of the Islands; and
(b) it is not a marriage of convenience;
and
(c) neither party has another spouse, a
civil partner or a durable partner with (in
any of those circumstances) immigration
status in the UK or the Islands based on
that person’s relationship with that party

the Islands

the Bailiwick of Guernsey, the Bailiwick
of Jersey or the Isle of Man

Annex 2 - Consideration of a valid
application
A2.1. A valid application made under this Appendix will
be decided on the basis of:
(a) the information and evidence provided by the
applicant, including in response to any request for
further information or evidence made by the entry
clearance officer; and
(b) any other information or evidence made
available to the entry clearance officer (including
from other government departments) at the date of
decision.

A2.2. (1) For the purposes of deciding whether the
applicant meets the eligibility requirements for entry
clearance, the entry clearance officer may:
(a) request that the applicant provide further
information or evidence that they meet those
requirements; or
(b) invite the applicant to be interviewed by the entry
clearance officer in person, by telephone, by videotelecommunications link or over the internet.
(2) For the purposes of deciding whether the applicant
meets the eligibility requirements for entry clearance,
the entry clearance officer may:
(a) request that the person (“P”) on whom the
applicant relies as being the relevant EEA citizen (or,
as the case may be, the qualifying British citizen)
with whom the applicant is in a family relationship
provide information or evidence about their
relationship with the applicant, their current or
planned residence in the UK or (where P is a
qualifying British citizen) their residence in a country
listed in sub-paragraph (a)(i) of the entry for ‘EEA
citizen’ in the table at Annex 1 to this Appendix; or
(b) invite P to be interviewed by the entry clearance
officer in person, by telephone, by videotelecommunications link or over the internet.
(3) If the applicant or (as the case may be) P:
(a) fails within a reasonable timeframe specified in
the request to provide the information or evidence
requested; or
(b) on at least two occasions, fails to comply with an
invitation to attend an interview in person or with
other arrangements to be interviewed,
the entry clearance officer may draw any factual
inferences about whether the applicant meets the
eligibility requirements for entry clearance as appear
appropriate in the circumstances.
(4) The entry clearance officer may decide, following the
drawing of a factual inference under sub-paragraph (3),
that the applicant does not meet the eligibility
requirements for entry clearance.
(5) The entry clearance officer must not decide that the
applicant does not meet the eligibility requirements for

entry clearance on the sole basis that the applicant or
(as the case may be) P failed on at least two occasions
to comply with an invitation to be interviewed.

Annex 3 – Revocation of entry clearance
and cancellation and curtailment of
leave to enter
A3.1. A person’s entry clearance granted under this
Appendix must be revoked where the person’s
presence in the UK is deemed not to be conducive to
the public good because of conduct committed after the
specified date.
A3.1A. A person’s entry clearance granted under this
Appendix must be revoked where:
(a) The person is an excluded person, as defined by
section 8B(4) of the Immigration Act 1971, because
of their conduct committed before the specified date,
and the person does not fall within section 8B(5A) or
8B(5B) of that Act; and
(b) The entry clearance officer is satisfied that,
because of the person’s conduct committed before
the specified date, the revocation is justified on
grounds of public policy, public security or public
health in accordance with regulation 27 of the
Immigration (European Economic Area) Regulations
2016, irrespective of whether the EEA Regulations
apply to that person (except that in regulation 27 for
“a right of permanent residence under regulation 15”
read “indefinite leave to enter or remain under, or
who would be granted indefinite leave to enter or
remain if they made a valid application under,
Appendix EU to the Immigration Rules”; and for “an
EEA decision” read “a decision under paragraph
A3.1A. of Annex 3 to Appendix EU (Family Permit)
to the Immigration Rules”).
A3.1B. A person’s entry clearance granted under this
Appendix must be revoked where the person is an
excluded person, as defined by section 8B(4) of the
Immigration Act 1971, because of conduct committed
after the specified date, and the person does not fall
within section 8B(5A) or 8B(5B) of that Act.

A3.2. A person’s entry clearance granted under this
Appendix may be revoked where the entry clearance
officer is satisfied that it is proportionate to revoke that
entry clearance where:
(a) In respect of their conduct committed before the
specified date, the person is subject to an exclusion
decision, an exclusion order or an Islands exclusion
decision; or
(b) The revocation is justified on grounds that, in
relation to the relevant application under this
Appendix, and whether or not to the applicant’s
knowledge, false or misleading information,
representations or documents were submitted
(including false or misleading information submitted
to any person to obtain a document used in support
of the application); and the information,
representation or documentation was material to the
decision to grant the applicant an entry clearance
under this Appendix; or
(c) Since it was granted, there has been a change in
circumstances that is, or would have been, relevant
to that person’s eligibility for that entry clearance,
such that their entry clearance ought to be revoked.
A3.3. A person’s leave to enter granted by virtue of
having arrived in the UK with an entry clearance that
was granted under this Appendix must be cancelled
where, because of conduct committed after the
specified date, the person’s presence in the UK is
deemed not to be conducive to the public good.
A3.4. A person’s leave to enter granted by virtue of
having arrived in the UK with an entry clearance that
was granted under this Appendix may be cancelled
where the Secretary of State or an Immigration Officer
is satisfied that it is proportionate to cancel that leave
where:
(a) Because of the person’s conduct committed
before the specified date, the cancellation is justified
on grounds of public policy, public security or public
health in accordance with regulation 27 of the
Immigration (European Economic Area) Regulations
2016, irrespective of whether the EEA Regulations
apply to that person (except that for “a right of
permanent residence under regulation 15” read

“indefinite leave to enter or remain under, or who
would be granted indefinite leave to enter or remain
if they made a valid application under, Appendix EU
to the Immigration Rules”; and for “an EEA decision”
read “a decision under paragraph A3.4.(a) of Annex
3 to Appendix EU (Family Permit) to the Immigration
Rules”); or
(b) The cancellation is justified on grounds that, in
relation to the relevant application under this
Appendix, and whether or not to the applicant’s
knowledge, false or misleading information,
representations or documents were submitted
(including false or misleading information submitted
to any person to obtain a document used in support
of the application); and the information,
representation or documentation was material to the
decision to grant the applicant an entry clearance
under this Appendix; or
(c) Since the entry clearance under this Appendix
was granted, there has been a change in
circumstances that is, or would have been, relevant
to that person’s eligibility for that entry clearance,
such that their leave to enter ought to be cancelled.
A3.5. A person’s leave to enter granted by virtue of
having arrived in the UK with an entry clearance that
was granted under this Appendix may be curtailed
where the Secretary of State is satisfied that it is
proportionate to curtail that leave where:
(a) Curtailment is justified on grounds that, in
relation to the relevant application under this
Appendix, and whether or not to the applicant’s
knowledge, false or misleading information,
representations or documents were submitted
(including false or misleading information submitted
to any person to obtain a document used in support
of the application); and the information,
representation or documentation was material to the
decision to grant the applicant an entry clearance
under this Appendix; or
(b) Curtailment is justified on grounds that it is more
likely than not that, after the specified date, the
person has entered, attempted to enter or assisted
another person to enter or to attempt to enter, a
marriage, civil partnership or durable partnership of

convenience.

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

© Crown copyright

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix EU
EU, other EEA and Swiss citizens and
family members
Appendix EU: EU, other EEA and Swiss citizens and
family members

Purpose
EU1. This Appendix sets out the basis on which an EEA
citizen and their family members, and the family
members of a qualifying British citizen, will, if they
apply under it, be granted indefinite leave to enter or
remain or limited leave to enter or remain.

Requirements and procedure
Requirements for indefinite leave to enter or remain
other than as a joining family member of a relevant
sponsor

EU2. The applicant will be granted indefinite leave to
enter (where the application is made outside the UK) or
indefinite leave to remain (where the application is
made within the UK) where:
• A valid application has been made in accordance
with paragraph EU9;
• The applicant meets the eligibility requirements for
indefinite leave to enter or remain in accordance
with paragraph EU11 or EU12; and
• The application is not to be refused on grounds of
suitability in accordance with paragraph EU15 or
EU16.
Requirements for indefinite leave to enter or remain as
a joining family member of a relevant sponsor
EU2A. The applicant will be granted indefinite leave to
enter (where the application is made outside the UK) or
indefinite leave to remain (where the application is
made within the UK) as a joining family member of a
relevant sponsor where:
• A valid application has been made in accordance
with paragraph EU9;
• The applicant meets the eligibility requirements for
indefinite leave to enter or remain in accordance
with paragraph EU11A; and
• The application is not to be refused on grounds of
suitability in accordance with paragraph EU15 or
EU16.
Requirements for limited leave to enter or remain other
than as a joining family member of a relevant sponsor
EU3. The applicant will be granted five years’ limited
leave to enter (where the application is made outside
the UK) or five years’ limited leave to remain (where the
application is made within the UK) where:
• A valid application has been made in accordance
with paragraph EU9;
• The applicant does not meet the eligibility
requirements for indefinite leave to enter or remain
in accordance with paragraph EU11 or EU12, but
meets the eligibility requirements for limited leave to

enter or remain in accordance with paragraph EU14;
and
• The application is not to be refused on grounds of
suitability in accordance with paragraph EU15 or
EU16.
Requirements for limited leave to enter or remain as a
joining family member of a relevant sponsor
EU3A. The applicant will be granted five years’ limited
leave to enter (where the application is made outside
the UK) or five years’ limited leave to remain (where the
application is made within the UK) as a joining family
member of a relevant sponsor where:
• A valid application has been made in accordance
with paragraph EU9;
• The applicant does not meet the eligibility
requirements for indefinite leave to enter or remain
in accordance with paragraph EU11A, but meets the
eligibility requirements for limited leave to enter or
remain in accordance with paragraph EU14A; and
• The application is not to be refused on grounds of
suitability in accordance with paragraph EU15 or
EU16.
Other provisions as to requirements and procedure
EU4. Where a person has been granted limited leave to
enter or remain under this Appendix:
• They must continue to meet the eligibility
requirements for that leave which they met at the
date of application (except for any which related to
their dependency as a child, dependent parent or
dependent relative) or meet other eligibility
requirements for limited leave to enter or remain in
accordance with paragraph EU14 (where they have
been granted limited leave to enter or remain under
paragraph EU3) or in accordance with paragraph
EU14A (where they have been granted limited leave
to enter or remain under paragraph EU3A);
• The Secretary of State may extend that limited
leave, regardless of whether the person has made a
valid application under this Appendix for such an
extension;

• They remain able to apply for indefinite leave to
enter or remain under this Appendix and will be
granted this where the requirements in paragraph
EU2 (where they have been granted limited leave to
enter or remain under paragraph EU3) or paragraph
EU2A (where they have been granted limited leave
to enter or remain under paragraph EU3A) are met;
and
• They may be granted indefinite leave to enter or
remain under paragraph EU2 or paragraph EU2A of
this Appendix, where the Secretary of State is
satisfied, without a valid application under this
Appendix having been made, that the requirements
in paragraph EU2 (where the person has been
granted limited leave to enter or remain under
paragraph EU3) or paragraph EU2A (where the
person has been granted limited leave to enter or
remain under paragraph EU3A) are otherwise met.
EU5. A person granted indefinite leave to enter or
remain under this Appendix may resume their residence
in the UK where, having been absent from the UK and
Islands, that leave has not lapsed under article 13 of
the Immigration (Leave to Enter and Remain) Order
2000. Where that leave has lapsed under that provision,
Appendix Returning Resident to these Rules applies if
the person wants to return to and settle in the UK.
EU6. A valid application made under this Appendix
which does not meet the requirements for indefinite
leave to enter or remain or limited leave to enter or
remain will be refused.
EU7. (1) Annex 1 sets out definitions which apply to this
Appendix. Any provision made elsewhere in the
Immigration Rules for those terms, or for other matters
for which this Appendix makes provision, does not apply
to an application made under this Appendix.
(2) Where this Appendix requires that a document, card
or other evidence is valid (or that it remained valid for
the period of residence relied upon), or has not been
cancelled or invalidated or has not ceased to be
effective, it does not matter that the person concerned
no longer has the right to enter or reside under the EEA
Regulations (or under the equivalent provision in the
Islands), on which basis the document, card or other

evidence was issued, by virtue of the revocation of
those Regulations (or equivalent provision in the
Islands).
EU8. Annex 2 applies to the consideration by the
Secretary of State of:
• A valid application made under this Appendix; or
• Whether a person granted limited leave to enter or
remain under this Appendix continues to meet the
eligibility requirements for that leave which they met
at the date of application or meets other eligibility
requirements for limited leave to enter or remain, or
the eligibility requirements for indefinite leave to
enter or remain, under this Appendix.

Valid application
EU9. A valid application has been made under this
Appendix where:
(a) It has been made using the required
application process;
(b) The required proof of identity and nationality
has been provided, where the application is made
within the UK;
(c) The required proof of entitlement to apply
from outside the UK has been provided, where the
application is made outside the UK;
(d) The required biometrics have been provided;
(e) It has been made by the required date, where
the date of application is on or after 9 August 2023;
and
(f) The applicant, if they rely on being a joining
family member of a relevant sponsor and where the
date of application is on or after 9 August 2023, is
not a specified enforcement case.
EU10. (1) An application made under this Appendix will
be rejected as invalid where it does not meet the
requirements in paragraph EU9.
(2) Paragraph 34BB of these Rules does not apply to
applications made under this Appendix. Where a further
valid application is made under this Appendix before a

previous such application has been decided, the further
application will be treated as an application to vary the
previous application and only the latest application will
be considered.
(3) Where a valid application is made under this
Appendix before a previous valid application made
under another part of or outside the Immigration Rules
has been decided (or where a valid application is made
under another part of or outside the Immigration Rules,
or varied by a further such application, before a
previous valid application made under this Appendix
has been decided), both applications will be considered.
(4) Where both applications considered in accordance
with sub-paragraph (3) above fall to be granted, the
Secretary of State will inform the applicant that they
satisfy the relevant criteria in respect of both
applications and ask them to confirm which application
they want to be decided and which they want to be
treated as withdrawn. If the applicant does not so
confirm within 14 days, the latest application will be
decided and the other treated as withdrawn.

Eligibility for indefinite leave to enter or
remain
Persons eligible for indefinite leave to enter or remain
as a relevant EEA citizen or their family member, or as a
person with a derivative right to reside or with a
Zambrano right to reside
EU11. The applicant meets the eligibility requirements
for indefinite leave to enter or remain as a relevant EEA
citizen or their family member (or as a person with a
derivative right to reside or a person with a
Zambrano right to reside) where the Secretary of
State is satisfied, including (where applicable) by the
required evidence of family relationship, that, at the
date of application, one of conditions 1 to 7 set out in
the following table is met:
Condition

Is met where:

1.

(a) The applicant:
(i) is a relevant EEA citizen; or

(ii) is (or, as the case may be, was) a
family member of a relevant EEA
citizen; or
(iii) is (or, as the case may be, was) a
family member who has retained the
right of residence by virtue of a
relationship with a relevant EEA citizen;
and
(b) The applicant has a documented right
of permanent residence; and
(c) Since they did, no supervening event
has occurred in respect of the applicant
2.

(a) The applicant is:
(i) a relevant EEA citizen; or
(ii) a family member of a relevant EEA
citizen; or
(iii) a family member who has retained the
right of residence by virtue of a relationship
with a relevant EEA citizen; and
(b) There is valid evidence of their
indefinite leave to enter or remain

3.

(a) The applicant:
(i) is a relevant EEA citizen; or
(ii) is (or, as the case may be, for the
relevant period was) a family member of a
relevant EEA citizen; or
(iii) is (or, as the case may be, for the
relevant period was) a family member who
has retained the right of residence by virtue
of a relationship with a relevant EEA
citizen; or
(iv) is a person with a derivative right to
reside; or
(v) is a person with a Zambrano right to
reside; or
(vi) is a person who had a derivative or
Zambrano right to reside; and
(b) The applicant has completed a
continuous qualifying period of five
years in any (or any combination) of those
categories; and
(c) Since then no supervening event has
occurred in respect of the applicant

4.

(a) The applicant is a relevant EEA citizen

who is a person who has ceased
activity; and
(b) Since they did so, no supervening
event has occurred
5.

(a) The applicant is (or, as the case may
be, was) a family member of a relevant
EEA citizen; and
(b) The relevant EEA citizen is a person
who has ceased activity; and
(c)(i) Where the date of application by the
family member is before 1 July 2021, the
relevant EEA citizen:
(aa) meets the requirements of subparagraph (b) of the applicable definition of
relevant EEA citizen in Annex 1; or
(bb) meets the requirements of subparagraph (d)(ii)(bb) of the applicable
definition of relevant EEA citizen in Annex
1; or
(cc) meets the requirements of subparagraph (e)(ii) or (e)(iii) of the applicable
definition of relevant EEA citizen in Annex
1; or
(dd) is a relevant naturalised British
citizen (in accordance with subparagraphs (b), (c) and (d) of the relevant
definition in Annex 1); or
(ii) Where the date of application by the
family member is on or after 1 July 2021,
the relevant EEA citizen meets the
following requirements of the applicable
definition of relevant EEA citizen in Annex
1:
(aa) sub-paragraph (a)(ii)(aa); or
(bb) sub-paragraph (b)(ii)(aa); or
(cc) sub-paragraph (c)(i); or
(dd) sub-paragraph (d)(iii)(aa); or
(ee) sub-paragraph (e)(i)(bb)(aaa), (e)(i)
(bb)(ccc) or (e)(ii)(bb)(aaa); and
(d) Sub-paragraph (a) above was met at
the point at which the relevant EEA citizen
became a person who has ceased activity;
and
(e) The applicant was resident in the UK
and Islands for a continuous qualifying
period immediately before the relevant

EEA citizen became a person who has
ceased activity; and
(f) Since the relevant EEA citizen became
a person who has ceased activity, no
supervening event has occurred in respect
of the applicant
6.

(a) The applicant is a family member of a
relevant EEA citizen; and
(b) The relevant EEA citizen has died and
was resident in the UK as a worker or
self-employed person at the time of their
death; and
(c) The relevant EEA citizen was resident
in the UK and Islands for a continuous
qualifying period of at least two years
immediately before dying, or the death was
the result of an accident at work or an
occupational disease; and
(d) The applicant was resident in the UK
with the relevant EEA citizen immediately
before their death; and
(e) Since the death of the relevant EEA
citizen, no supervening event has occurred

7.

(a) The applicant is a family member of a
relevant EEA citizen and is a child under
the age of 21 years of a relevant EEA
citizen, or of their spouse or civil partner,
and either:
(i) The marriage was contracted or the civil
partnership was formed before the
specified date; or
(ii) the person who is now their spouse or
civil partner was the durable partner of
the relevant EEA citizen before the
specified date (the definition of durable
partner in Annex 1 being met before that
date rather than at the date of application)
and the partnership remained durable at
the specified date; and
(b)(i) Where the date of application by the
family member is before 1 July 2021, the
relevant EEA citizen (or, as the case may
be, their spouse or civil partner):
(aa) has been granted indefinite leave to
enter or remain under paragraph EU2 of

this Appendix (or under its equivalent in the
Islands), which has not lapsed or been
cancelled, revoked or invalidated (or is
being granted that leave under that
paragraph of this Appendix or under its
equivalent in the Islands); or
(bb) meets the requirements of subparagraph (b)(ii) of the applicable definition
of relevant EEA citizen in Annex 1 (where
the relevant EEA citizen is an Irish
citizen); or
(cc) meets the requirements of subparagraph (d)(ii)(bb) of the applicable
definition of relevant EEA citizen in Annex
1; or
(dd) meets the requirements of subparagraph (e)(ii) or (e)(iii) of the applicable
definition of relevant EEA citizen in Annex
1; or
(ee) meets the requirements of subparagraph (f)(ii) of the applicable definition
of relevant EEA citizen in Annex 1; or
(ff) is a relevant naturalised British citizen
(in accordance with sub-paragraphs (b), (c)
and (d) of the relevant definition in Annex
1); or
(ii) Where the date of application by the
family member is on or after 1 July 2021,
the relevant EEA citizen (or, as the case
may be, their spouse or civil partner) meets
the following requirements of the
applicable definition of relevant EEA citizen
in Annex 1:
(aa) sub-paragraph (a)(ii)(aa); or
(bb) sub-paragraph (b)(ii)(aa) (where the
relevant citizen is an Irish citizen); or
(cc) sub-paragraph (c)(i); or
(dd) sub-paragraph (d)(iii)(aa); or
(ee) sub-paragraph (e)(i)(bb)(aaa), (e)(i)
(bb)(ccc) or (e)(ii)(bb)(aaa); or
(ff) sub-paragraph (f)(ii)(aa)
Persons eligible for indefinite leave to enter or remain
as a joining family member of a relevant sponsor
EU11A. The applicant meets the eligibility requirements

for indefinite leave to enter or remain as a joining family
member of a relevant sponsor where the Secretary of
State is satisfied, including by the required evidence of
family relationship, that, at the date of application and in
an application made after the specified date, one of
conditions 1 to 4 set out in the following table is met:
Condition

Is met where:

1.

(a) The applicant:
(i) is (or, as the case may be, for the
relevant period was) a joining family
member of a relevant sponsor; or
(ii) is (or, as the case may be, for the
relevant period was) a family member who
has retained the right of residence by virtue
of a relationship with a relevant sponsor;
and
(b) The applicant has completed a
continuous qualifying period of five years
which began after the specified date, in
either (or any combination) of those
categories; and
(c) Since then no supervening event has
occurred in respect of the applicant

2

(a) The applicant is (or, as the case may
be, was) a joining family member of a
relevant sponsor; and
(b) The relevant sponsor is a person who
has ceased activity; and
(c)(i) Where the date of application is
before 1 July 2021, the relevant sponsor:
(aa) meets the requirements of subparagraph (a)(i)(aa) or (a)(ii)(bb) of the
definition of relevant sponsor in Annex 1;
or
(bb) meets the requirements of subparagraph (a)(iv)(bb) or (a)(iv)(cc) of the
definition of relevant sponsor in Annex 1;
or
(cc) is a relevant naturalised British citizen
(in accordance with sub-paragraphs (b), (c)
and (d) of the relevant definition in Annex
1); or
(ii) Where the date of application is on or
after 1 July 2021, the relevant sponsor

meets the following requirements of the
definition of relevant sponsor in Annex 1:
(aa) sub-paragraph (b)(i)(aa); or
(bb) sub-paragraph (b)(ii)(aa); or
(cc) sub-paragraph (b)(iii)(aa); or
(dd) sub-paragraph (b)(iv)(bb)(aaa), (b)(iv)
(bb)(bbb) or (b)(v)(bb)(aaa); or
(ee) sub-paragraph (b)(vi)(aa); and
(d) Sub-paragraph (a) above was met at
the point at which the relevant sponsor
became a person who has ceased activity;
and
(e) Immediately before the relevant
sponsor became a person who has ceased
activity, the applicant was resident in the
UK and Islands for a continuous qualifying
period which began after the specified
date; and
(f) Since the relevant sponsor became a
person who has ceased activity, no
supervening event has occurred in respect
of the applicant
3

(a) The applicant is a joining family
member of a relevant sponsor; and
(b) The relevant sponsor has died and was
resident in the UK as a worker or selfemployed person at the time of their death;
and
(c) The relevant sponsor was resident in
the UK and Islands for a continuous
qualifying period of at least two years
immediately before dying, or the death was
the result of an accident at work or an
occupational disease; and
(d) The applicant was resident in the UK
with the relevant sponsor after the
specified date and immediately before their
death; and
(e) Since the death of the relevant sponsor,
no supervening event has occurred

4

(a)(i) The applicant is a joining family
member of a relevant sponsor and is a
child under the age of 21 years of the
relevant sponsor; and
(ii)(aa) Where the date of application is

before 1 July 2021, the relevant sponsor:
(aaa) meets the requirements of subparagraph (a)(i)(aa) of the definition of
relevant sponsor in Annex 1; or
(bbb) meets the requirements of subparagraph (a)(ii)(bb) of the definition of
relevant sponsor in Annex 1 (where the
relevant sponsor is an Irish citizen); or
(ccc) meets the requirements of subparagraph (a)(iv)(bb) or (a)(iv)(cc) of the
definition of relevant sponsor in Annex 1;
or
(ddd) meets the requirements of subparagraph (a)(v)(bb) of the definition of
relevant sponsor in Annex 1; or
(eee) is a relevant naturalised British
citizen (in accordance with sub-paragraphs
(b), (c) and (d) of the relevant definition in
Annex 1); or
(bb) Where the date of application is on or
after 1 July 2021, the relevant sponsor
meets the following requirements of the
definition of relevant sponsor in Annex 1:
(aaa) sub-paragraph (b)(i)(aa); or
(bbb) sub-paragraph (b)(ii)(aa); or
(ccc) sub-paragraph (b)(iii)(aa); or
(ddd) sub-paragraph (b)(iv)(bb)(aaa), (b)
(iv)(bb)(bbb) or (b)(v)(bb)(aaa); or
(eee) sub-paragraph (b)(vi)(aa); or
(b)(i) The applicant is a joining family
member of a relevant sponsor and is a
child under the age of 21 years of the
spouse or civil partner of the relevant
sponsor (in accordance with subparagraph (a) of the definition of family
member of a relevant EEA citizen in Annex
1, substituting ‘relevant sponsor’ for each
reference in that sub-paragraph to ‘relevant
EEA citizen’); and
(ii) The spouse or civil partner has been or
is being granted indefinite leave to enter or
remain under paragraph EU2 of this
Appendix; or
(c)(i) The applicant is a joining family
member of a relevant sponsor and is a
child under the age of 21 years of the
spouse or civil partner of the relevant

sponsor (in accordance, in respect of the
spouse or civil partner, with the first subparagraph (a), together with either the
second sub-paragraph (a) or subparagraph (b)(i) or (b)(ii), of the definition of
joining family member of a relevant
sponsor in Annex 1); and
(ii) The spouse or civil partner has been or
is being granted indefinite leave to enter or
remain under paragraph EU2A of this
Appendix

Persons eligible for indefinite leave to enter or remain
as a family member of a qualifying British citizen
EU12. The applicant meets the eligibility requirements
for indefinite leave to enter or remain as a family
member of a qualifying British citizen, or as a family
member who has retained the right of residence by
virtue of a relationship with a qualifying British citizen,
where the Secretary of State is satisfied, including by
the required evidence of family relationship, that, at the
date of application, one of conditions 1 to 4 set out in
the following table is met:
Condition

Is met where:

1.

(a) The applicant is (or, as the case may
be, was):
(i) a family member of a qualifying British
citizen; or
(ii) a family member who has retained the
right of residence by virtue of a relationship
with a qualifying British citizen; and
(b) The applicant has a documented right
of permanent residence; and
(c) No supervening event has occurred in
respect of the applicant

2.

(a) The applicant is:
(i) a family member of a qualifying British
citizen; or
(ii) a family member who has retained the
right of residence by virtue of a relationship
with a qualifying British citizen; and

(b) There is valid evidence of their
indefinite leave to enter or remain
3.

(a) The applicant is (or, as the case may
be, for the relevant period was):
(i) a family member of a qualifying British
citizen; or
(ii) a family member who has retained the
right of residence by virtue of a relationship
with a qualifying British citizen; and
(b) The applicant has completed a
continuous qualifying period in the UK of
five years in either (or any combination) of
those categories; and
(c) The applicant was, for any period in
which they were present in the UK as a
family member of a qualifying British citizen
relied upon under sub-paragraph (b),
lawfully resident by virtue of regulation 9(1)
to (6) of the EEA Regulations (regardless
of whether in the UK the qualifying British
citizen was a qualified person under
regulation 6 of the EEA Regulations); and
(d) Since completing the continuous
qualifying period of five years, no
supervening event has occurred in respect
of the applicant

4.

(a) The applicant is a child under the age
of 21 years of the spouse or civil partner of
the qualifying British citizen, and either:
(i) the marriage was contracted or the civil
partnership was formed before the date
and time of withdrawal; or
(ii) the person who is now their spouse or
civil partner was the durable partner of the
qualifying British citizen before the date
and time of withdrawal (the definition of
durable partner in Annex 1 being met
before then rather than at the date of
application) and the partnership remained
durable at the date and time of withdrawal;
and
(b) The applicant is in the UK lawfully by
virtue of regulation 9(1) to (6) of the EEA
Regulations (regardless of whether in the
UK the qualifying British citizen is a

qualified person under regulation 6 of the
EEA Regulations); and
(c) The spouse or civil partner has been or
is being granted indefinite leave to enter or
remain under paragraph EU2 of this
Appendix
EU13. The reference to the applicant completing a
continuous qualifying period of five years:
• In condition 3 in the table in paragraph EU12 can
include a period (or combination of periods) during
which the applicant was a relevant EEA citizen, a
family member of a relevant EEA citizen, a family
member who has retained the right of residence by
virtue of a relationship with a relevant EEA citizen, a
person with a derivative right to reside or a person
with a Zambrano right to reside before becoming the
family member of a qualifying British citizen (or
thereafter a family member who has retained the
right of residence by virtue of a relationship with a
qualifying British citizen); and
• In condition 3 in the table in paragraph EU11 can
include a period during which the applicant was a
family member of a qualifying British citizen or a
family member who has retained the right of
residence by virtue of a relationship with a qualifying
British citizen before becoming (as the case may be)
a relevant EEA citizen, a family member of a
relevant EEA citizen (or thereafter a family member
who has retained the right of residence by virtue of a
relationship with a relevant EEA citizen), a person
with a derivative right to reside or a person with a
Zambrano right to reside.

Eligibility for limited leave to enter or
remain
Persons eligible for limited leave to enter or remain as a
relevant EEA citizen or their family member, as a person
with a derivative right to reside or with a Zambrano right
to reside or as a family member of a qualifying British
citizen
EU14. The applicant meets the eligibility requirements

for limited leave to enter or remain where the Secretary
of State is satisfied, including (where applicable) by the
required evidence of family relationship, that, at the date
of application, condition 1 or 2 set out in the following
table is met:
Condition

Is met where:

1.

(a) The applicant is:
(i) a relevant EEA citizen; or
(ii) a family member of a relevant EEA
citizen; or
(iii) a family member who has retained the
right of residence by virtue of a relationship
with a relevant EEA citizen; or
(iv) a person with a derivative right to
reside; or
(v) a person with a Zambrano right to
reside; and
(b) The applicant is not eligible for
indefinite leave to enter or remain under
paragraph EU11 of this Appendix solely
because they have completed a
continuous qualifying period of less than
five years; and
(c) Where the applicant is a family member
of a relevant EEA citizen, there has been
no supervening event in respect of the
relevant EEA citizen

2.

(a) The applicant is:
(i) a family member of a qualifying British
citizen; or
(ii) a family member who has retained the
right of residence by virtue of a relationship
with a qualifying British citizen; and
(b) The applicant was, for any period in
which they were present in the UK as a
family member of a qualifying British citizen
relied upon under sub-paragraph (c),
lawfully resident by virtue of regulation 9(1)
to (6) of the EEA Regulations (regardless
of whether in the UK the qualifying British
citizen was a qualified person under
regulation 6 of the EEA Regulations); and
(c) The applicant is not eligible for
indefinite leave to enter or remain under

paragraph EU12 of this Appendix solely
because they have completed a
continuous qualifying period in the UK of
less than five years

Persons eligible for limited leave to enter or remain as a
joining family member of a relevant sponsor
EU14A. The applicant meets the eligibility requirements
for limited leave to enter or remain as a joining family
member of a relevant sponsor where the Secretary of
State is satisfied, including by the required evidence of
family relationship, that, at the date of application and in
an application made after the specified date, the
condition set out in the following table is met:
Condition

Is met where:
(a) The applicant is:
(i) a joining family member of a relevant
sponsor; or
(ii) a family member who has retained the
right of residence by virtue of a relationship
with a relevant sponsor; and
(b) The applicant is:
(i) not eligible for indefinite leave to enter
under paragraph EU11A of this Appendix,
where the application is made outside the
UK; or
(ii) not eligible for indefinite leave to remain
under paragraph EU11A of this Appendix,
where the application is made within the
UK, solely because they have completed a
continuous qualifying period of less than
five years which began after the specified
date; and
(c) Where the applicant is a joining family
member of a relevant sponsor, there has
been no supervening event in respect of
the relevant sponsor

Suitability

EU15. (1) An application made under this Appendix will
be refused on grounds of suitability where any of the
following apply at the date of decision:
(a) The applicant is subject to a deportation order
or to a decision to make a deportation order; or
(b) The applicant is subject to an exclusion order
or exclusion decision.
(1A) An application made under this Appendix will be
refused on grounds of suitability where, because of the
applicant’s conduct committed before the specified date,
the Secretary of State is satisfied that the decision to
refuse the application is justified on the grounds of
public policy, public security or public health in
accordance with regulation 27 of the EEA Regulations,
irrespective of whether the EEA Regulations apply to
that person (except that in regulation 27 for “with a right
of permanent residence under regulation 15” and “who
has a right of permanent residence under regulation 15”
read “who has indefinite leave to enter or remain under,
or who meets the requirements of paragraph EU11,
EU11A or EU12 of, Appendix EU to the Immigration
Rules”; and for “an EEA decision” read “a decision
under paragraph EU15(1A) of Appendix EU to the
Immigration Rules”).
(2) An application made under this Appendix will be
refused on grounds of suitability where the Secretary of
State deems the applicant’s presence in the UK is not
conducive to the public good because of conduct
committed after the specified date.
(3) An application made under this Appendix will be
refused on grounds of suitability where at the date of
decision the applicant is subject to an Islands
deportation order.
(4) An application made under this Appendix may be
refused on grounds of suitability where at the date of
decision the applicant is subject to an Islands
exclusion decision.
EU16. An application made under this Appendix may be
refused on grounds of suitability where, at the date of
decision, the Secretary of State is satisfied that:
(a) It is proportionate to refuse the application
where, in relation to the application and whether or
not to the applicant’s knowledge, false or misleading

information, representations or documents have
been submitted (including false or misleading
information submitted to any person to obtain a
document used in support of the application); and
the information, representation or documentation is
material to the decision whether or not to grant the
applicant indefinite leave to enter or remain or
limited leave to enter or remain under this Appendix;
or
(b) It is proportionate to refuse the application where
the applicant is subject to a removal decision under
the EEA Regulations on the grounds of their nonexercise or misuse of rights, and the date of
application under this Appendix is before 1 July
2021; or
(c)(i) The applicant:
(aa) Has previously been refused admission to
the UK in accordance with regulation 23(1) of the
EEA Regulations; or
(bb) Has previously been refused admission to
the UK in accordance with regulation 12(1)(a) of
the Citizens’ Rights (Frontier Workers) (EU Exit)
Regulations 2020; or
(cc) Had indefinite leave to enter or remain or
limited leave to enter or remain granted under
this Appendix (or limited leave to enter granted
by virtue of having arrived in the UK with an
entry clearance that was granted under
Appendix EU (Family Permit) to these Rules)
which was cancelled under paragraph 321B(b)(i)
or 321B(b)(ii) of these Rules, under paragraph
A3.1., A3.1A., A3.1B. or A3.2.(a) of Annex 3 to
this Appendix or under paragraph A3.3. or A3.4.
(a) of Annex 3 to Appendix EU (Family Permit);
and
(ii) The refusal of the application is justified either:
(aa) In respect of the applicant’s conduct
committed before the specified date, on grounds
of public policy, public security or public health in
accordance with regulation 27 of the EEA
Regulations, irrespective of whether the EEA
Regulations apply to that person (except that in
regulation 27 for “with a right of permanent
residence under regulation 15” and “who has a

right of permanent residence under regulation
15” read “who has indefinite leave to enter or
remain under, or who meets the requirements of
paragraph EU11, EU11A or EU12 of, Appendix
EU to the Immigration Rules”; and for “an EEA
decision” read “a decision under paragraph
EU16(c) of Appendix EU to the Immigration
Rules”), and it is proportionate to refuse the
application; or
(bb) In respect of conduct committed after the
specified date, where the Secretary of State
deems the applicant’s presence in the UK is not
conducive to the public good; or
(d) It is proportionate to refuse the application where
the applicant is a relevant excluded person
because of their conduct committed before the
specified date and the Secretary of State is satisfied
that the decision to refuse the application is justified
on the grounds of public policy, public security or
public health in accordance with regulation 27 of the
EEA Regulations, irrespective of whether the EEA
Regulations apply to that person (except that in
regulation 27 for “with a right of permanent
residence under regulation 15” and “who has a right
of permanent residence under regulation 15” read
“who has indefinite leave to enter or remain under,
or who meets the requirements of paragraph EU11,
EU11A or EU12 of, Appendix EU to the Immigration
Rules”; and for “an EEA decision” read “a decision
under paragraph EU16(d) of Appendix EU to the
Immigration Rules”); or
(e) The applicant is a relevant excluded person
because of conduct committed after the specified
date; or
(f) It is proportionate to refuse the application where
it is more likely than not that, after the specified
date, the applicant has assisted another person
fraudulently to obtain, or to attempt to obtain, entry
clearance to, or leave to enter or remain in, the UK.
EU17. The references in paragraphs EU15 and EU16 to
an order or decision to which the applicant is subject do
not include an order or decision which, at the date of
decision on their application under this Appendix, has
been set aside or revoked.

EU18. Annex 3 applies in respect of the cancellation,
curtailment and revocation of leave to enter or remain
granted under this Appendix.

Annex 1 - Definitions
Term

Definition

adopted child

a child adopted in accordance with a
relevant adoption decision

child

(a)(i) the direct descendant under the
age of 21 years (or who has turned 21
years of age since the specified date)
of a relevant EEA citizen or of their
spouse or civil partner; or
(ii) the direct descendant under the age
of 21 years of a qualifying British citizen
(or, as the case may be, of a relevant
sponsor) or of their spouse or civil
partner; or
(b)(i) (where sub-paragraph (a)(i) above
does not apply) the direct descendant
aged 21 years or over of a relevant
EEA citizen (or, as the case may be, of
a qualifying British citizen or of a
relevant sponsor) or of their spouse or
civil partner; and
(ii) (unless the applicant was previously
granted limited leave to enter or remain
under paragraph EU3 or EU3A of this
Appendix as a child on the basis that
sub-paragraph (a) above applied or
under its equivalent in the Islands on
that basis) dependent on (as the case
may be):
(aa) the relevant EEA citizen (or on
their spouse or civil partner) at the date
of application or, where the date of
application is after the specified date, at
the specified date; or
(bb) on the qualifying British citizen (or
on their spouse or civil partner) at the
date of application or, where the date of
application is after the specified date, at
the specified date; or

(cc) on the relevant sponsor (or on their
spouse or civil partner) at the date of
application
‘dependent’ means here that:
(a) having regard to their financial and
social conditions, or health, the
applicant cannot, or (as the case may
be) for the relevant period could not,
meet their essential living needs (in
whole or in part) without the financial or
other material support of the relevant
EEA citizen (or, as the case may be, of
the qualifying British citizen or of the
relevant sponsor) or of their spouse or
civil partner; and
(b) such support is, or (as the case may
be) was, being provided to the
applicant by the relevant EEA citizen
(or, as the case may be, by the
qualifying British citizen or by the
relevant sponsor) or by their spouse or
civil partner; and
(c) there is no need to determine the
reasons for that dependence or for the
recourse to that support
in addition:
(a) ‘child’ includes:
(i) an adopted child of; or
(ii) a child born through surrogacy
(where recognised in UK law or Islands
law) for; or
(iii) a child in respect of whom a special
guardianship order (within the meaning
of section 14A(1) of the Children Act
1989) is in force appointing as their
special guardian; or
(iv) a child in respect of whom an order
has been made under section 5 of the
Children Act 1989 appointing as their
guardian; or
(v) a child subject to a permanence
order made under section 80 of the
Adoption and Children (Scotland) Act
2007 vesting parental responsibilities
and parental rights in a person who is;

or
(vi) a child who has a guardian
appointed under section 7 of the
Children (Scotland) Act 1995, or who is
living with a person pursuant to an
order made under section 11 of that
Act, and that guardian or other person
is; or
(vii) a child in respect of whom an order
has been made under Article 159 of the
Children (Northern Ireland) Order 1995,
or in respect of whom an appointment
has been made under Article 160 of
that Order, appointing as their guardian
a person who is; or
(viii) a child who has a guardian
appointed under section 12 or 14 of the
Children (Guernsey and Alderney) Law
2008 or section 12 or 13 of the Children
(Sark) Law 2016, or who is living in the
care of a person pursuant to an order
made under section 14 of the 2008 Law
or section 13 of the 2016 Law, and that
guardian or other person is; or
(ix) a child in respect of whom an order
under Article 7 of the Children (Jersey)
Law 2002 is in force appointing as their
guardian; or
(x) a child in respect of whom a special
guardianship order (within the meaning
of section 17A of the Children and
Young Persons Act 2001 of Tynwald)
has been made appointing as their
special guardian; or
(xi) a child in respect of whom an order
has been made under section 6 or 7 of
the Children and Young Persons Act
2001 of Tynwald appointing as their
guardian,
a relevant EEA citizen (or, as the case
may be, a qualifying British citizen or a
relevant sponsor) or their spouse or
civil partner, but ‘child’ does not include
a child cared for by a relevant EEA
citizen (or, as the case may be, by a
qualifying British citizen or by a relevant
sponsor) or their spouse or civil partner

solely by virtue of a formal or informal
fostering arrangement; and
(b) ‘direct descendant’ also includes a
grandchild or greatgrandchild, other
than for the purpose of meeting
condition 7 in the table in paragraph
EU11 of this Appendix, condition 4 in
the table in paragraph EU11A or
condition 4 in the table in paragraph
EU12; and
(c) ‘spouse or civil partner’ means (as
the case may be) the person described
in sub-paragraph (a)(i) or (a)(ii) of the
entry for ‘family member of a qualifying
British citizen’ in this table, in subparagraph (a) of the entry for ‘family
member of a relevant EEA citizen’ in
this table or in the first subparagraph
(a) (together with either the second
sub-paragraph (a) or sub-paragraph (b)
(i) or (b)(ii)) of the entry for ‘joining
family member of a relevant sponsor’ in
this table
civil partner

(a) the person is, or (as the case may
be) for the relevant period was, in a
valid civil partnership (which exists or
existed under or by virtue of the Civil
Partnership Act 2004 or under any
equivalent legislation in the Islands); or
is, or (as the case may be) for the
relevant period was, in a relationship
registered overseas which is, or was,
entitled to be treated as a civil
partnership under that Act or under any
equivalent legislation in the Islands,
with a relevant EEA citizen (or, as the
case may be, with a qualifying British
citizen or with a relevant sponsor); and
(b) it is, or (as the case may be) for the
relevant period was, not a civil
partnership of convenience; and
(c) neither party has, or (as the case
may be) for the relevant period had,
another civil partner, a spouse or a
durable partner with (in any of those
circumstances) immigration status in

the UK or the Islands based on that
person’s relationship with that party
civil
partnership of
convenience
durable
partnership of
convenience
marriage of
convenience

continuous
qualifying
period

a civil partnership, durable partnership
or marriage entered into as a means to
circumvent:
(a) any criterion the party would have to
meet in order to enjoy a right to enter or
reside in the UK under the EEA
Regulations; or
(b) any other provision of UK
immigration law or any requirement of
the Immigration Rules; or
(c) any criterion the party would
otherwise have to meet in order to
enjoy a right to enter or reside in the
UK under EU law; or
(d) any criterion the party would have to
meet in order to enjoy a right to enter or
reside in the Islands under Islands law
a period of residence in the UK and
Islands (save in condition 3 in the table
in paragraph EU12 of this Appendix; in
condition 2 in the table in paragraph
EU14 of this Appendix; in subparagraph (a)(ii) or (d)(iii)(aa) of the
entry for ‘family member who has
retained the right of residence’ in this
table; in sub-paragraph (c) of the entry
for ‘person who has ceased activity’ in
this table; and in the entry for ‘person
with a derivative right to reside’ and for
‘person with a Zambrano right to reside’
in this table, where (in each case) the
period of residence must be in the UK
and the reference in subparagraphs (b)
(i) and (ii) below to the UK and Islands
is to be read as a reference to the UK):
(a) which, unless the person is a joining
family member of a relevant sponsor, is
a specified relevant person of
Northern Ireland (or is the dependent
relative of such a person) or relies on
sub-paragraph (b)(i)(cc), (b)(i)(dd) or
(b)(i)(ee) below (or unless subparagraph (b)(i)(ii) or (b)(i)(jj) below

applies), began before the specified
date; and
(b) during which none of the following
occurred:
(i) absence(s) from the UK and Islands
which exceeded a total of six months in
any 12-month period, except for:
(aa) a single period of absence which
did not exceed 12 months and was for
an important reason (such as
pregnancy, childbirth, serious illness,
study, vocational training or an
overseas posting, or because of
COVID-19); or
(bb) a single period of absence which
did not exceed 12 months and which,
although the absence was not originally
for an important reason, is to be treated
as being for an important reason as it
exceeded six months because of
COVID-19; or
(cc) (following a period of absence
under sub-paragraph (b)(i)(aa) above
because of COVID-19 or under subparagraph (b)(i)(bb) above) a second
period of absence which did not exceed
12 months and was for an important
reason (such as described in subparagraph (b)(i)(aa) above) which, save
for caring for someone with a serious
illness, was not because of COVID-19;
where this is the case, the period of
absence under this sub-paragraph
exceeding six months will not count
towards any period of residence in the
UK and Islands on which the person
relies; or
(dd) (following a period of absence
under sub-paragraph (b)(i)(aa) above
which, save for caring for someone with
a serious illness, was not because of
COVID-19) either a second period of
absence which did not exceed 12
months and was for an important
reason, where that reason was
because of COVID-19, or a period of
absence under sub-paragraph (b)(i)(bb)

above; where this is the case, the
period of absence under this subparagraph exceeding six months will
not count towards any period of
residence in the UK and Islands on
which the person relies; or
(ee) a period of absence under subparagraph (b)(i)(aa), (b)(i)(bb), (b)(i)(cc)
or (b)(i)(dd) above which exceeded 12
months because COVID-19 meant that
the person was prevented from, or
advised against, returning earlier;
where this is the case, the period of
absence under this sub-paragraph
exceeding 12 months will not count
towards any period of residence in the
UK and Islands on which the person
relies; or
(ff) any period of absence on
compulsory military service; or
(gg) any period of absence on a posting
on Crown service or (as a spouse, civil
partner, durable partner or child) any
period of absence accompanying a
person on a posting on Crown service;
or
(hh) any period spent working in the UK
marine area (as defined in section 42 of
the Marine and Coastal Access Act
2009); or
(ii) (where the person has limited leave
to enter or remain granted under
paragraph EU3 of this Appendix) any
period(s) of absence which did not
exceed a total of 30 months in the most
recent 60-month period, as at the date
of application (where the Secretary of
State is considering whether the
requirements for indefinite leave to
enter or remain in paragraph EU2 are
met) or (as the case may be) at the
date on which, under paragraph EU4,
the Secretary of State is considering
whether to grant them indefinite leave
to enter or remain under paragraph
EU2, without a valid application under
this Appendix having been made; or

(jj) (where the person has limited leave
to enter or remain granted under
paragraph EU3A of this Appendix) any
period(s) of absence which did not
exceed a total of 30 months in the most
recent 60-month period, as at the date
of application (where the Secretary of
State is considering whether the
requirements for indefinite leave to
enter or remain in paragraph EU2A are
met) or (as the case may be) at the
date on which, under paragraph EU4,
the Secretary of State is considering
whether to grant them indefinite leave
to enter or remain under paragraph
EU2A, without a valid application under
this Appendix having been made; or
(kk) any period of absence due directly
to an order or decision to which subparagraph (b)(iii) below refers, where
that order or decision has been set
aside or revoked; or
(ii) the person served or is serving a
sentence of imprisonment of any length
in the UK and Islands, unless the
conviction which led to it has been
overturned; or
(iii) any of the following in respect of the
person, unless it has been set aside or
revoked:
(aa) any decision or order to exclude or
remove under regulation 23 or 32 of the
EEA Regulations (or under the
equivalent provisions of the Immigration
(European Economic Area) Regulations
of the Isle of Man); or
(bb) a decision to which regulation
15(4) of the EEA Regulations otherwise
refers, unless that decision arose from
a previous decision under regulation
24(1) of the EEA Regulations (or the
equivalent decision, subject to the
equivalent qualification, under the
Immigration (European Economic Area)
Regulations of the Isle of Man); or
(cc) an exclusion decision; or
(dd) a deportation order, other than by

virtue of the EEA Regulations; or
(ee) an Islands deportation order; or
(ff) an Islands exclusion decision; and
(c) which continues at the date of
application, unless:
(i) the period is of at least five years’
duration; or
(ii)(aa) the person acquired the right of
permanent residence in the UK under
regulation 15 of the EEA Regulations
(or, where there are reasonable
grounds for the person’s failure to meet
the deadline applicable to them in the
entry for ‘required date’ in this table,
would have acquired such a right had
the EEA Regulations not been
revoked), or the right of permanent
residence in the Islands through the
application there of section 7(1) of the
Immigration Act 1988 (as it had effect
before it was repealed) or under the
Immigration (European Economic Area)
Regulations of the Isle of Man; or
(bb) the period relates to:
(aaa) a relevant EEA citizen, where, in
relation to that EEA citizen, the
applicant relies:
(i) for all or part of the period to which
sub-paragraph (b) of condition 3 in the
table in paragraph EU11 of this
Appendix refers (or, as the case may
be, for part of the period to which subparagraph (b) of condition 3 in the table
in paragraph EU12 refers) on having
been a family member of a relevant
EEA citizen; or
(ii) on being or having been a family
member who has retained the right of
residence by virtue of a relationship
with a relevant EEA citizen,
provided (in any case) the period
relating to that relevant EEA citizen
continued (unless sub-paragraph (c)(i),
(c)(ii)(aa), (c)(iii) or (c)(iv) of this entry
applied to that relevant EEA citizen
instead) either, as the case may be,
throughout the period the applicant

relies on in (i) as having been a family
member of a relevant EEA citizen or, as
relied on in (ii), until the applicant
became a family member who has
retained the right of residence by virtue
of a relationship with a relevant EEA
citizen; or
(bbb) a relevant sponsor, where, in
relation to that relevant sponsor, the
applicant relies for all or part of the
period to which sub-paragraph (b) of
condition 1 in the table in paragraph
EU11A of this Appendix refers on
having been (or, as the case may be,
relies for all or part of the period to
which sub-paragraph (b)(ii) of the
condition in the table in paragraph
EU14A refers on being) a family
member who has retained the right of
residence by virtue of a relationship
with a relevant sponsor, provided (in
either case) the period relating to that
relevant sponsor continued (unless
sub-paragraph (c)(i), (c)(ii)(aa), (c)(iii)
or (c)(iv) of this entry applied to that
relevant sponsor instead) until the
applicant became a family member who
has retained the right of residence by
virtue of a relationship with a relevant
sponsor; or
(iii) the person has valid indefinite leave
to enter or remain granted under this
Appendix (or under its equivalent in the
Islands); or
(iv) there is valid evidence of their
indefinite leave to enter or remain; or
(v) a relevant reference is concerned;
or
(vi) sub-paragraph (b)(i)(ii) or (b)(i)(jj)
above applies, where, under paragraph
EU4 of this Appendix, the Secretary of
State is considering whether to grant
the person indefinite leave to enter or
remain without a valid application under
this Appendix having been made
in addition, ‘relevant reference’ in sub-

paragraph (c)(v) above means the
reference to continuous qualifying
period in:
- condition 6 in the table in paragraph
EU11 of this Appendix;
- condition 3 in the table in paragraph
EU11A of this Appendix;
- sub-paragraph (d)(iii)(aa) of the entry
for ‘family member who has retained
the right of residence’ in this table (as
that reference applies to, as the case
may be, the relevant EEA citizen, the
qualifying British citizen or the relevant
sponsor);
- where the date of application is on or
after 1 July 2021, sub-paragraph (b)(i)
of the applicable entry for ‘relevant EEA
citizen’ in this table, where subparagraph (b)(ii)(aa) of that entry
applies;
- where the date of application is on or
after 1 July 2021, sub-paragraph (c) of
the applicable entry for ‘relevant EEA
citizen’ in this table (in so far as the
reference in that sub-paragraph to subparagraph (a) of the entry for ‘relevant
naturalised British citizen’ in this table is
concerned), where sub-paragraph (c)(i)
of the applicable entry for ‘relevant EEA
citizen’ in this table applies;
- where the date of application is on or
after 1 July 2021, sub-paragraph (d)(ii)
of the applicable entry for ‘relevant EEA
citizen’ in this table, where subparagraph (d)(iii)(aa) of that entry
applies;
- where the date of application is on or
after 1 July 2021, sub-paragraph (e)(i)
(aa) of the applicable entry for ‘relevant
EEA citizen’ in this table, where subparagraph (e)(i)(bb)(ccc) of that entry
applies;
- where the date of application is on or
after 1 July 2021, sub-paragraph (e)(ii)
(aa) of the applicable entry for ‘relevant
EEA citizen’ in this table, where subparagraph (e)(ii)(bb)(aaa) of that entry

applies;
- where the date of application is on or
after 1 July 2021, sub-paragraph (f)(i)
of the applicable entry for ‘relevant EEA
citizen’ in this table, where subparagraph (f)(ii)(aa) of that entry
applies;
- sub-paragraph (b)(ii) of the entry for
‘relevant sponsor’ in this table, where
sub-paragraph (b)(ii)(aa) of that entry
applies;
- sub-paragraph (b)(iii) of the entry for
‘relevant sponsor’ in this table (where
the reference to sub-paragraph (a) of
the entry for ‘relevant naturalised British
citizen’ in this table is concerned),
where sub-paragraph (b)(iii)(aa) of the
entry for ‘relevant sponsor’ in this table
applies;
- sub-paragraph (b)(iv)(aa) of the entry
for ‘relevant sponsor’ in this table,
where sub-paragraph (b)(iv)(bb)(bbb) of
that entry applies;
- sub-paragraph (b)(v)(aa) of the entry
for ‘relevant sponsor’ in this table,
where sub-paragraph (b)(v)(bb)(aaa) of
that entry applies; and
- sub-paragraph (b)(vi) of the entry for
‘relevant sponsor’ in this table, where
sub-paragraph (b)(vi)(aa) of that entry
applies
Crown
service

service as:
(a) a member of HM Forces (as defined
in the Armed Forces Act 2006); or
(b) an employee of the UK
Government, a Northern Ireland
department, the Scottish Administration
or the Welsh Government; or
(c) a permanent member of the British
Council

custody of a
child

the child normally lives with the
applicant or does so part of the time,
and includes arrangements agreed
informally and those which are subject
to a court order for determining with

whom the child is to live and when
date and time
of withdrawal

2300 GMT on 31 January 2020

date of
application

the date on which the application is
submitted under the required
application process, which means:
(a) (in the case of the relevant on-line
application form) the date on which that
form is submitted on-line; or
(b) (in the case of a paper application
form):
(i) the date of posting to the Home
Office address specified on the form
(where one is specified), as shown on
the tracking information provided by
Royal Mail or, if not tracked, by the
postmark date on the envelope; or
(ii) where the paper application form is
sent by courier, or other postal services
provider, the date on which it is
delivered to the Home Office address
specified on the form (where one is
specified); or
(iii) where the paper application form is
sent by e-mail, the date on which it is
recorded by Home Office e-mail
software as received at the Home
Office e-mail address specified on the
form (where one is specified)

dependent
parent

(a) the direct relative in the ascending
line of a relevant EEA citizen (or, as the
case may be, of a qualifying British
citizen or of a relevant sponsor) or of
their spouse or civil partner; and
(b) (unless sub-paragraph (c)
immediately below applies) dependent
on (as the case may be):
(i) the relevant EEA citizen (or on their
spouse or civil partner) at the date of
application or, where the date of
application is after the specified date, at
the specified date, and (unless the
relevant EEA citizen is under the age of
18 years at the date of application or,

where the date of application is after
the specified date, the relevant EEA
citizen was under the age of 18 years
at the specified date) that dependency
is assumed; or
(ii) on the qualifying British citizen (or
on their spouse or civil partner) at the
date of application or, where the date of
application is after the specified date, at
the specified date, and (unless the
qualifying British citizen is under the
age of 18 years at the date of
application or, where the date of
application is after the specified date,
the qualifying British citizen was under
the age of 18 years at the specified
date) that dependency is assumed; or
(iii) on the relevant sponsor (or on their
spouse or civil partner) at the date of
application and (unless the relevant
sponsor is under the age of 18 years)
that dependency is assumed where the
date of application is before 1 July
2021; and
(c) this sub-paragraph applies (and the
applicant therefore has to meet no
requirement as to dependency) where:
(i) the applicant was previously granted
limited leave to enter or remain under
paragraph EU3 or EU3A of this
Appendix as a dependent parent, and
that leave has not lapsed or been
cancelled, curtailed or invalidated; or
(ii) the spouse, civil partner or durable
partner of the applicant (and with whom
they reside) has been granted indefinite
leave to enter or remain or limited leave
to enter or remain under paragraph
EU2, EU2A, EU3 or EU3A of this
Appendix as a dependent parent of the
relevant EEA citizen (or, as the case
may be, of the qualifying British citizen
or of the relevant sponsor) or of their
spouse or civil partner, and that
indefinite or limited leave has not
lapsed or been cancelled, curtailed,
revoked or invalidated

‘dependent’ means here that:
(a) having regard to their financial and
social conditions, or health, the
applicant cannot, or (as the case may
be) for the relevant period could not,
meet their essential living needs (in
whole or in part) without the financial or
other material support of the relevant
EEA citizen (or, as the case may be, of
the qualifying British citizen or of the
relevant sponsor) or of their spouse or
civil partner; and
(b) such support is, or (as the case may
be) was, being provided to the
applicant by the relevant EEA citizen
(or, as the case may be, by the
qualifying British citizen or by the
relevant sponsor) or by their spouse or
civil partner; and
(c) there is no need to determine the
reasons for that dependence or for the
recourse to that support
in addition:
(a) ‘direct relative in the ascending line’
includes:
(i) a grandparent or great-grandparent;
and
(ii) an adoptive parent of an adopted
child; and
(b) ‘spouse or civil partner’ means (as
the case may be) the person described
in sub-paragraph (a)(i) or (a)(ii) of the
entry for ‘family member of a qualifying
British citizen’ in this table, in subparagraph (a) of the entry for ‘family
member of a relevant EEA citizen’ in
this table or in the first sub-paragraph
(a) (together with either the second
sub-paragraph (a) or sub-paragraph (b)
(i) or (b)(ii)) of the entry for ‘joining
family member of a relevant sponsor’ in
this table; and
(c) in respect of the reference in subparagraph (c)(ii) above to the spouse,
civil partner or durable partner of the

applicant, the entry for (as the case
may be) ‘spouse’, ‘civil partner’ or
‘durable partner’ in this table applies,
except that in the applicable entry
‘applicant’ is to be substituted for
‘relevant EEA citizen’ and subparagraph (b) of the entry for ‘durable
partner’ in this table is to be
disregarded
dependent
relative

the person:
(a)(i)(aa) is a relative (other than a
spouse, civil partner, durable partner,
child or dependent parent) of their
sponsoring person; and
(bb) is, or (as the case may be) for the
relevant period was, a dependant of the
sponsoring person, a member of their
household or in strict need of their
personal care on serious health
grounds; or
(ii) is a person who is subject to a
non-adoptive legal guardianship
order in favour (solely or jointly with
another party) of their sponsoring
person; or
(iii) is a person under the age of 18
years (unless they were previously
granted limited leave to enter or remain
under paragraph EU3 of this Appendix
as a dependent relative and were under
18 at the date of application for that
leave) who:
(aa) is the direct descendant of the
durable partner of their sponsoring
person; or
(bb) has been adopted by the durable
partner of their sponsoring person, in
accordance with a relevant adoption
decision; and
(b) holds a relevant document as the
dependent relative of their sponsoring
person for the period of residence
relied upon (unless, in the case of a
family member of a qualifying British
citizen as described in sub-paragraph
(a)(viii) of that entry in this table, the

Secretary of State is satisfied that there
are reasonable grounds for the
person’s failure to meet the deadline to
which that sub-paragraph refers); for
the purposes of this provision, where
the person applies for a relevant
document (as described in subparagraph (a)(i)(aa) or (a)(ii) of that
entry in this table) as the dependent
relative of their sponsoring person
before the specified date and their
relevant document is issued on that
basis after the specified date (or where
the person relies as their relevant
document, as described in subparagraph (a)(iv) of that entry in this
table, on an EU Settlement Scheme
Family Permit granted to them under
Appendix EU (Family Permit) to these
Rules as a ‘dependent relative of a
specified relevant person of Northern
Ireland’, as defined in Annex 1 to that
Appendix), they are deemed to have
held the relevant document since
immediately before the specified date
in addition, ‘sponsoring person’ means:
(a) (where sub-paragraphs (a)(i) and
(b) above apply):
(i) a relevant EEA citizen (in
accordance with the applicable entry in
this table); or
(ii) the spouse or civil partner (as
described in sub-paragraph (a) of the
entry for ‘family member of a relevant
EEA citizen’ in this table) of a relevant
EEA citizen (in accordance with the
applicable entry in this table); or
(iii) a qualifying British citizen; or
(iv) the spouse or civil partner (as
described in sub-paragraph (a)(i) or (a)
(ii) of the entry for ‘family member of a
qualifying British citizen’ in this table) of
a qualifying British citizen; or
(b) (where the first sub-paragraph (a)(ii)
in this entry and sub-paragraph (b)
above apply or the first sub-paragraph

(a)(iii) in this entry and sub-paragraph
(b) above apply):
(i) a relevant EEA citizen (in
accordance with the applicable entry in
this table); or
(ii) a qualifying British citizen
deportation
order

as the case may be:
(a) an order made under section 5(1) of
the Immigration Act 1971 by virtue of
regulation 32(3) of the EEA
Regulations; or
(b) an order made under section 5(1) of
the Immigration Act 1971 by virtue of
section 3(5) or section 3(6) of that Act
in respect of:
(i) conduct committed after the
specified date; or
(ii) conduct committed by the person
before the specified date, where the
Secretary of State has decided that the
deportation order is justified on the
grounds of public policy, public security
or public health in accordance with
regulation 27 of the EEA Regulations,
irrespective of whether the EEA
Regulations apply to the person (except
that in regulation 27 for “with a right of
permanent residence under regulation
15” and “has a right of permanent
residence under regulation 15” read
“who, but for the making of the
deportation order, meets the
requirements of paragraph EU11,
EU11A or EU12 of Appendix EU to the
Immigration Rules”; and for “an EEA
decision” read “a deportation decision”);
or
(c) an order made under section 5(1) of
the Immigration Act 1971 by virtue of
regulation 15(1)(b) of the Citizens’
rights (Frontier Workers) (EU Exit)
Regulations 2020
in addition, for the avoidance of doubt,
(b) includes a deportation order made
under the Immigration Act 1971 in

accordance with section 32 of the UK
Borders Act 2007
documented
right of
permanent
residence

the Secretary of State is satisfied from
the information available to them that:
(a)(i) the person has been issued by
the Secretary of State with a document
certifying permanent residence or a
permanent residence card (and that
permanent residence card was issued
or renewed within the last 10 years)
under regulation 19 of the EEA
Regulations, or with a residence permit
or residence document under the
Immigration (European Economic Area)
Order 1994 endorsed to show
permission to remain in the UK
indefinitely; and
(ii) this document or card is not invalid
under regulation 19(4)(c); and
(iii) this document or card has not been
revoked, and its renewal has not been
refused, under regulation 24 (except
where the revocation or refusal
occurred because the person had been
absent from the UK for a period of more
than two, and no more than five,
consecutive years); and
(iv) the person’s right to reside has not
been cancelled under regulation 25; or
(b) the person has been given notice in
writing under paragraphs 256 to 257A
of the Immigration Rules of the
Bailiwick of Guernsey showing that they
may remain indefinitely, and this notice
has not been revoked or otherwise
ceased to be effective; or
(c) the person has been issued by the
relevant Minister with a document in
accordance with paragraphs 255 to 258
of the Immigration Rules of the
Bailiwick of Jersey in an appropriate
form certifying permanent residence or
a permanent residence card, and this
document or card has not been
revoked or otherwise ceased to be
effective; or

(d) the person has been issued with a
letter certifying permanent residence, or
their passport has been stamped to that
effect, under the Immigration
(European Economic Area) Regulations
of the Isle of Man, and this evidence
has not been revoked, invalidated or
cancelled
durable
partner

(a) the person is, or (as the case may
be) for the relevant period was, in a
durable relationship with a relevant
EEA citizen (or, as the case may be,
with a qualifying British citizen or with a
relevant sponsor), with the couple
having lived together in a relationship
akin to a marriage or civil partnership
for at least two years (unless there is
other significant evidence of the
durable relationship); and
(b)(i) the person holds a relevant
document as the durable partner of the
relevant EEA citizen (or, as the case
may be, of the qualifying British citizen
or of the relevant sponsor) for the
period of residence relied upon; for the
purposes of this provision, where the
person applies for a relevant document
(as described in sub-paragraph (a)(i)
(aa) or (a)(ii) of that entry in this table)
as the durable partner of the relevant
EEA citizen or, as the case may be, of
the qualifying British citizen before the
specified date and their relevant
document is issued on that basis after
the specified date, they are deemed to
have held the relevant document since
immediately before the specified date;
or
(ii) where the person is applying as the
durable partner of a relevant sponsor
(or, as the case may be, of a qualifying
British citizen), or as the spouse or civil
partner of a relevant sponsor (as
described in sub-paragraph (a)(i)(bb) of
the entry for ‘joining family member of a
relevant sponsor’ in this table), and

does not hold a document of the type to
which sub-paragraph (b)(i) above
applies, and where:
(aa) the date of application is after the
specified date; and
(bb) the person:
(aaa) was not resident in the UK and
Islands as the durable partner of a
relevant EEA citizen (where that
relevant EEA citizen is their relevant
sponsor) on a basis which met the
entry for ‘family member of a relevant
EEA citizen’ in this table, or, as the
case may be, as the durable partner of
the qualifying British citizen, at (in either
case) any time before the specified
date, unless (in the former case):
- the reason why they were not so
resident is that they did not hold a
relevant document as the durable
partner of that relevant EEA citizen for
that period; and
- they otherwise had a lawful basis of
stay in the UK and Islands for that
period; or
(bbb) was resident in the UK and
Islands before the specified date, and
one of the events referred to in subparagraph (b)(i) or (b)(ii) of the entry for
‘continuous qualifying period’ in this
table has occurred and after that event
occurred they were not resident in the
UK and Islands again before the
specified date; or
(ccc) was resident in the UK and
Islands before the specified date, and
the event referred to in sub-paragraph
(a) of the entry for ‘supervening event’
in this table has occurred and after that
event occurred they were not resident
in the UK and Islands again before the
specified date,
the Secretary of State is satisfied by
evidence provided by the person that
the partnership was formed and was
durable before (in the case of a family
member of a qualifying British citizen as

described in sub-paragraph (a)(i)(bb) or
(a)(iii) of that entry in this table) the
date and time of withdrawal and
otherwise before the specified date;
and
(c) it is, or (as the case may be) for the
relevant period was, not a durable
partnership of convenience; and
(d) neither party has, or (as the case
may be) for the relevant period had,
another durable partner, a spouse or a
civil partner with (in any of those
circumstances) immigration status in
the UK or the Islands based on that
person’s relationship with that party
in addition, to meet condition 6 in the
table in paragraph EU11 of this
Appendix (or condition 3 in the table in
paragraph EU11A), the above
requirements are to be met with
reference to the period immediately
before the death of the relevant EEA
citizen (or, as the case may be, of the
relevant sponsor) rather than to the
date of application
educational
course

a general educational course,
apprenticeship or vocational training
course, as provided by regulation 10(7)
of the EEA Regulations

EEA citizen

a person who is (and throughout any
continuous qualifying period relied
upon, was):
(a)(i) a national of: Austria, Belgium,
Bulgaria, Croatia, Republic of Cyprus,
Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia,
Finland, France, Germany, Greece,
Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Latvia,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg,
Malta, Netherlands, Norway, Poland,
Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia,
Spain, Sweden or Switzerland; and
(ii) not also a British citizen; or
(b) a relevant naturalised British citizen;
or

(c)(i) a national of a country listed in
sub-paragraph (a)(i) above; and
(ii) (where the applicant meets the
criteria in paragraph 9 of Schedule 6 to
the EEA Regulations as the family
member (“F”) to whom that paragraph
refers) a British citizen within the
meaning of the person (“P”) to whom
that paragraph refers; or
(d) a relevant person of Northern
Ireland
EEA
Regulations

(a) (where relevant to something done
before 2300 GMT on 31 December
2020) the Immigration (European
Economic Area) Regulations 2016 (as
they had effect immediately before that
date and time); or
(b) (where relevant to something done
after 2300 GMT on 31 December 2020
and before 1 July 2021) the
Immigration (European Economic Area)
Regulations 2016 (as, despite the
revocation of those Regulations, they
continued to have effect, with specified
modifications, by virtue of the Citizens’
Rights (Application Deadline and
Temporary Protection) (EU Exit)
Regulations 2020); or
(c) (where relevant to something done
on or after 1 July 2021) the Immigration
(European Economic Area) Regulations
2016 (as they had effect immediately
before they were revoked and, where
the context requires it, on the basis that
those Regulations had not been
revoked)

evidence of
birth

(a) (in the case of a child) the full birth
certificate(s) or other document(s)
which the Secretary of State is satisfied
evidences that the applicant is the
direct descendant of (or otherwise a
child of) the relevant EEA citizen (or, as
the case may be, of the qualifying
British citizen or of the relevant

sponsor) or of their spouse or civil
partner, as described (as the case may
be) in sub-paragraph (a)(i) or (a)(ii) of
the entry for ‘family member of a
qualifying British citizen’ in this table, in
sub-paragraph (a) of the entry for
‘family member of a relevant EEA
citizen’ in this table or in the first subparagraph (a) (together with either the
second sub-paragraph (a) or subparagraph (b)(i) or (b)(ii)) of the entry
for ‘joining family member of a relevant
sponsor’ in this table; or
(b) (in the case of a dependent parent)
the full birth certificate(s) or other
document(s) which the Secretary of
State is satisfied evidences that the
applicant is the direct relative in the
ascending line of the relevant EEA
citizen (or, as the case may be, of the
qualifying British citizen or of the
relevant sponsor) or of their spouse or
civil partner, as described in subparagraph (a) above
exclusion
decision

a direction given by the Secretary of
State that a person must be excluded
from the UK:
(a) in respect of conduct committed
after the specified date; or
(b) in respect of conduct committed by
the person before the specified date,
where the Secretary of State is satisfied
that the direction is justified on the
grounds of public policy, public security
or public health in accordance with
regulation 27 of the EEA Regulations,
irrespective of whether the EEA
Regulations apply to that person
(except that in regulation 27 for “with a
right of permanent residence under
regulation 15” and “has a right of
permanent residence under regulation
15” read “who, but for the making of the
exclusion direction, meets the
requirements of paragraph EU11,
EU11A or EU12 of Appendix EU to the

Immigration Rules”; and for “an EEA
decision” read “an exclusion direction”)
exclusion
order

an order made under regulation 23(5)
of the EEA Regulations

exempt
person

a person who:
(a) has a right to reside under the EEA
Regulations, other than under
regulation 16; or
(b) has the right of abode under section
2 of the Immigration Act 1971; or
(c) is exempt from immigration control
in accordance with section 8(2), (3) or
(4) of the Immigration Act 1971; or
(d) has indefinite leave to enter or
remain

family
member of a
qualifying
British citizen

a person who has satisfied the
Secretary of State, including by the
required evidence of family relationship,
that:
(a) they have (or, as the case may be,
had) returned to the UK:
(i) before 2300 GMT on 29 March 2022
(or later where the Secretary of State is
satisfied that there are reasonable
grounds for the person’s failure to meet
that deadline), as the spouse or civil
partner of a qualifying British citizen,
and:
(aa) the marriage was contracted or the
civil partnership was formed before the
date and time of withdrawal; or
(bb) the applicant was the durable
partner of the qualifying British citizen
before the date and time of withdrawal
(the definition of ‘durable partner’ in this
table being met before then rather than
at the date of application) and the
partnership remained durable at the
date and time of withdrawal; or
(ii) (where sub-paragraph (a)(i)(bb)
above does not apply) before 2300
GMT on 31 December 2020 (or later
where the Secretary of State is satisfied
that there are reasonable grounds for

the person’s failure to meet that
deadline), as the spouse or civil partner
of a qualifying British citizen, and the
marriage was contracted or the civil
partnership was formed after the date
and time of withdrawal and before 2300
GMT on 31 December 2020; or
(iii) before 2300 GMT on 29 March
2022 (or later where the Secretary of
State is satisfied that there are
reasonable grounds for the person’s
failure to meet that deadline), as the
durable partner of a qualifying British
citizen, and:
(aa) the partnership was formed and
was durable before the date and time of
withdrawal; and
(bb) the partnership remains durable at
the date of application (or it did so for
the relevant period or immediately
before the death of the qualifying British
citizen); or
(iv) before 2300 GMT on 31 December
2020 (or later where the Secretary of
State is satisfied that there are
reasonable grounds for the person’s
failure to meet that deadline), as the
durable partner of a qualifying British
citizen, and:
(aa) the partnership was formed and
was durable after the date and time of
withdrawal and before 2300 GMT on 31
December 2020; and
(bb) the partnership remains durable at
the date of application (or it did so for
the relevant period or immediately
before the death of the qualifying British
citizen); or
(v) before 2300 GMT on 29 March 2022
(or later where the Secretary of State is
satisfied that there are reasonable
grounds for the person’s failure to meet
that deadline), as the child or
dependent parent of a qualifying British
citizen, and the family relationship
existed before the date and time of
withdrawal (unless, in the case of a

child, the person was born thereafter,
was adopted thereafter in accordance
with a relevant adoption decision or
thereafter became a child within the
meaning of that entry in this table on
the basis of one of sub-paragraphs (a)
(iii) to (a)(xi) of that entry); or
(vi) before 2300 GMT on 29 March
2022 (or later where the Secretary of
State is satisfied that there are
reasonable grounds for the person’s
failure to meet that deadline), as the
child or dependent parent of the spouse
or civil partner of a qualifying British
citizen (as described in sub-paragraph
(a)(i) above), and all the family
relationships existed before the date
and time of withdrawal (unless, in the
case of a child, the person was born
thereafter, was adopted thereafter in
accordance with a relevant adoption
decision or thereafter became a child
within the meaning of that entry in this
table on the basis of one of subparagraphs (a)(iii) to (a)(xi) of that
entry); or
(vii) before 2300 GMT on 31 December
2020 (or later where the Secretary of
State is satisfied that there are
reasonable grounds for the person’s
failure to meet that deadline), as the
child or dependent parent of the spouse
or civil partner of a qualifying British
citizen (as described in sub-paragraph
(a)(ii) above), and the family
relationship of the child or dependent
parent to the spouse or civil partner
existed before the date and time of
withdrawal (unless, in the case of a
child, the person was born thereafter,
was adopted thereafter in accordance
with a relevant adoption decision or
thereafter became a child within the
meaning of that entry in this table on
the basis of one of sub-paragraphs (a)
(iii) to (a)(xi) of that entry); or
(viii) before 2300 GMT on 31 December

2020 (or later where the Secretary of
State is satisfied that there are
reasonable grounds for the person’s
failure to meet that deadline), as the
dependent relative of a qualifying
British citizen, or (as the case may be)
of their spouse or civil partner as
described in sub-paragraph (a)(i) or (a)
(ii) above, and that family relationship
and (in sub-paragraph (a)(i)(bb) of the
entry for ‘dependent relative’ in this
table) the person’s dependency (or, as
the case may be, their membership of
the household or their strict need for
personal care on serious health
grounds) existed before the applicant
returned to the UK with the qualifying
British citizen or (where the Secretary
of State is satisfied that there are
reasonable grounds for the person’s
failure to meet the deadline of 2300
GMT on 31 December 2020 for
returning to the UK) before 2300 GMT
on 31 December 2020, and (in either
case) the person’s dependency (or, as
the case may be, their membership of
the household or their strict need for
personal care on serious health
grounds) continues to exist at the date
of application (or did so for the period of
residence in the UK relied upon); and
(b) they satisfied the conditions in
regulation 9(2), (3) and (4)(a) of the
EEA Regulations (as the family
member (“F”) to whom those provisions
refer) or, as the case may be, the
conditions in regulation 9(1A)(b), (2),
(3) and (4)(a) of the EEA Regulations
(as the extended family member
(“EFM”) to whom those provisions
refer), in either case doing so:
(i) (save in the case of a child as
described in sub-paragraph (a)(v), (a)
(vi) or (a)(vii) above who was born after
2300 GMT on 31 December 2020, was
adopted thereafter in accordance with a
relevant adoption decision or thereafter

became a child within the meaning of
that entry in this table on the basis of
one of sub-paragraphs (a)(iii) to (a)(xi)
of that entry) before 2300 GMT on 31
December 2020; and
(ii) (save where the date of application
is after 2300 GMT on 31 December
2020 and where those conditions
concern matters relevant to the
dependency referred to in subparagraph (b)(ii)(bb) of the entry for
‘child’ in this table or in sub-paragraph
(b)(ii) of the entry for ‘dependent parent’
in this table) immediately before
returning to the UK with (or following)
the qualifying British citizen (who is to
be treated as the British citizen (“BC”)
to whom those provisions refer); and
(c) (where the applicant does not rely
on having a documented right of
permanent residence, on having
completed a continuous qualifying
period in the UK of five years, or on
being a family member who has
retained the right of residence by virtue
of a relationship with a qualifying British
citizen) the family relationship
continues to exist at the date of
application
family
member of a
relevant EEA
citizen

a person who does not meet the
definition of ‘joining family member of a
relevant sponsor’ in this table, and who
has satisfied the Secretary of State,
including by the required evidence of
family relationship, that they are (and
for the relevant period have been), or
(as the case may be) for the relevant
period (or at the relevant time) they
were:
(a) the spouse or civil partner of a
relevant EEA citizen, and:
(i) the marriage was contracted or the
civil partnership was formed before the
specified date; or
(ii) the applicant was the durable
partner of the relevant EEA citizen

before the specified date (the definition
of ‘durable partner’ in this table being
met before that date rather than at the
date of application), and the partnership
remained durable at the specified date;
or
(b) the durable partner of a relevant
EEA citizen, and:
(i) the partnership was formed and was
durable before the specified date; and
(ii) the partnership remains durable at
the date of application (or it did so for
the relevant period or immediately
before the death of the relevant EEA
citizen); or
(c) the child or dependent parent of a
relevant EEA citizen, and the family
relationship existed before the specified
date; or
(d) the child or dependent parent of the
spouse or civil partner of a relevant
EEA citizen (as described in subparagraph (a) above), and the family
relationship existed before the specified
date; or
(e) the dependent relative, before the
specified date, of a relevant EEA citizen
(or of their spouse or civil partner, as
described in sub-paragraph (a) above)
and the dependency (or, as the case
may be, their membership of the
household or their strict need for
personal care on serious health
grounds) continues to exist at the date
of application (or did so for the period of
residence relied upon)
in addition, where the applicant does
not rely on meeting condition 1, 3, or 6
of paragraph EU11 of this Appendix, or
on being a family member who has
retained the right of residence by virtue
of a relationship with a relevant EEA
citizen, the family relationship continues
to exist at the date of application
family

a person who has satisfied the

member who
has retained
the right of
residence

Secretary of State, including by the
required evidence of family relationship,
that the requirements set out in one of
sub-paragraphs (a) to (e) below are
met and that since satisfying those
requirements the required continuity of
residence has been maintained:
(a) the applicant is an EEA citizen (in
accordance with sub-paragraph (a) of
that entry in this table) or non-EEA
citizen who:
(i) was, as the case may be, the family
member of a relevant EEA citizen (or of
a qualifying British citizen), or the
joining family member of a relevant
sponsor, and that person died; and
(ii) (where the applicant is a non-EEA
citizen) was resident, as the case may
be, as the family member of a relevant
EEA citizen (or of a qualifying British
citizen), or as the joining family member
of a relevant sponsor, for a continuous
qualifying period in the UK of at least a
year immediately before the death of
that person; or
(b) the applicant is an EEA citizen (in
accordance with sub-paragraph (a) of
that entry in this table) or non-EEA
citizen who:
(i) is the child (including where they are
a joining family member of a relevant
sponsor) of:
(aa) a relevant EEA citizen (or, as the
case may be, of a qualifying British
citizen or of a relevant sponsor) who
has died or of their spouse or civil
partner immediately before their death;
or
(bb) a person who ceased to be a
relevant EEA citizen (or, as the case
may be, a qualifying British citizen or a
relevant sponsor) on ceasing to reside
in the UK or of their spouse or civil
partner at that point; and
(ii) was attending an educational
course in the UK immediately before
the relevant EEA citizen (or, as the

case may be, the qualifying British
citizen or the relevant sponsor) died or
ceased to be a relevant EEA citizen (or,
as the case may be, a qualifying British
citizen or a relevant sponsor), and
continues to attend such a course; or
(c) the applicant is an EEA citizen (in
accordance with sub-paragraph (a) of
that entry in this table) or non-EEA
citizen who is the parent with custody
of a child who meets the requirements
of sub-paragraph (b) above and the
child is not a joining family member of a
relevant sponsor; or
(d) the applicant (“A”) is an EEA citizen
(in accordance with sub-paragraph (a)
of that entry in this table) or non-EEA
citizen who:
(i) ceased to be, as the case may be, a
family member of a relevant EEA
citizen (or of a qualifying British citizen),
or a joining family member of a relevant
sponsor, on the termination of the
marriage or civil partnership of that
relevant EEA citizen (or, as the case
may be, of that qualifying British citizen
or of that relevant sponsor); for the
purposes of this provision, where, after
the initiation of the proceedings for that
termination, that relevant EEA citizen
ceased to be a relevant EEA citizen (or,
as the case may be, that qualifying
British citizen ceased to be a qualifying
British citizen, or that relevant sponsor
ceased to be a relevant sponsor), they
will be deemed to have remained a
relevant EEA citizen (or, as the case
may be, a qualifying British citizen or a
relevant sponsor) until that termination;
and
(ii) was resident in the UK at the date of
the termination of the marriage or civil
partnership; and
(iii) (where A is a non-EEA citizen) one
of the following applies:
(aa) prior to the initiation of the
proceedings for the termination of the

marriage or the civil partnership, the
marriage or civil partnership had lasted
for at least three years and the parties
to the marriage or civil partnership had
been resident for a continuous
qualifying period in the UK of at least
one year during its duration; or
(bb) A has custody of a child of the
relevant EEA citizen (or, as the case
may be, of the qualifying British citizen
or of the relevant sponsor); or
(cc) A has the right of access to a child
of the relevant EEA citizen (or, as the
case may be, of the qualifying British
citizen or of the relevant sponsor),
where the child is under the age of 18
years and where a court has ordered
that such access must take place in the
UK; or
(dd) the continued right of residence in
the UK of A is warranted by particularly
difficult circumstances, such as where
A or another family member has been a
victim of domestic violence or abuse
whilst the marriage or civil partnership
was subsisting; or
(e) the applicant (“A”) is an EEA citizen
(in accordance with sub-paragraph (a)
of that entry in this table) or non-EEA
citizen who:
(i) provides evidence that a relevant
family relationship with a relevant EEA
citizen (or, as the case may be, with a
qualifying British citizen or with a
relevant sponsor) has broken down
permanently as a result of domestic
violence or abuse; and
(ii) was resident in the UK when the
relevant family relationship broke down
permanently as a result of domestic
violence or abuse, and the continued
right of residence in the UK of A is
warranted where A or another family
member has been a victim of domestic
violence or abuse before the relevant
family relationship broke down
permanently

in addition:
(a) ‘relevant family relationship’ in subparagraph (e) above means a family
relationship with a relevant EEA citizen
(or, as the case may be, with a
qualifying British citizen or with a
relevant sponsor) such that the
applicant is, or (immediately before the
relevant family relationship broke down
permanently as a result of domestic
violence or abuse) was, as the case
may be, a family member of a relevant
EEA citizen (or of a qualifying British
citizen), or a joining family member of a
relevant sponsor; and
(b) where sub-paragraph (e) above
applies, then, where, following the
permanent breakdown of the relevant
family relationship as a result of
domestic violence or abuse, the
applicant remains, as the case may be,
a family member of a relevant EEA
citizen (or of a qualifying British citizen),
or a joining family member of a relevant
sponsor, they will be deemed to have
ceased to be such a family member for
the purposes of this Appendix once the
permanent breakdown occurred; and
(c) ‘required continuity of residence’
means that, where the applicant has
not completed a continuous qualifying
period of five years (and does not have
valid evidence of their indefinite leave
to enter or remain, and has not
acquired the right of permanent
residence in the UK under regulation 15
of the EEA Regulations, or the right of
permanent residence in the Islands
through the application there of section
7(1) of the Immigration Act 1988 (as it
had effect before it was repealed) or
under the Immigration (European
Economic Area) Regulations of the Isle
of Man), then, since the point at which
(where they do so) they began to rely
on being in the UK and Islands as a

family member who has retained the
right of residence and while they
continued to do so, one of the events
referred to in sub-paragraph (b)(i) or (b)
(ii) in the definition of ‘continuous
qualifying period’ in this table has not
occurred
frontier
worker

a person who:
(a) is a national of: Austria, Belgium,
Bulgaria, Croatia, Republic of Cyprus,
Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia,
Finland, France, Germany, Greece,
Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Latvia,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg,
Malta, Netherlands, Norway, Poland,
Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia,
Spain, Sweden or Switzerland; and
(b) is not a British citizen; and
(c) satisfies the Secretary of State by
relevant evidence of this that they fulfil
the relevant conditions of being a
frontier worker set out in the Citizens’
Rights (Frontier Workers) (EU Exit)
Regulations 2020, and that they have
done so continuously since the
specified date; and
(d) has not been (and is not to be)
refused admission to, or removed from,
the UK by virtue of the Citizens’ Rights
(Frontier Workers) (EU Exit)
Regulations 2020, and is not subject to
a relevant restriction decision as
defined by regulation 2 of those
Regulations

full birth
certificate

a birth certificate recognised in the UK
or the Islands which records the name
of the mother and (where registered)
the father

GMT

Greenwich Mean Time

immigration
status in the
UK or the
Islands

indefinite or limited leave to enter or
remain in the UK or the Islands under
or outside the relevant Immigration
Rules; exemption from immigration

control; the entitlement to reside in the
UK or the right of permanent residence
in the UK under regulations 13 to 15 of
the EEA Regulations; or the entitlement
to reside in the Islands or the right of
permanent residence in the Islands
through the application there of section
7(1) of the Immigration Act 1988 (as it
had effect before it was repealed) or
under the Immigration (European
Economic Area) Regulations of the Isle
of Man
Irish citizen

a person who is an Irish citizen as a
matter of Irish law

Islands
deportation
order

a deportation order as defined in
paragraph 3(6) of Schedule 4 to the
Immigration Act 1971 that was made:
(a) in respect of conduct committed
after the specified date and has effect
in relation to the person, by virtue of
paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to the
Immigration Act 1971, as if it was a
deportation order made under that Act;
or
(b) in respect of conduct committed by
the person before the specified date,
where the Secretary of State is satisfied
that the order is justified on the grounds
of public policy, public security or public
health in accordance with regulation 27
of the EEA Regulations, irrespective of
whether the EEA Regulations apply to
the person (except that in regulation 27
for “with a right of permanent residence
under regulation 15” and “has a right of
permanent residence under regulation
15” read “who, but for the making of the
deportation order, meets the
requirements of paragraph EU11,
EU11A or EU12 of Appendix EU to the
Immigration Rules”; and for “an EEA
decision” read “a deportation decision”)

Islands
exclusion

a direction given by the relevant
Minister or other authority in the Islands

decision

that a person must be excluded from
the Island concerned:
(a) in respect of conduct committed
after the specified date; or
(b) in respect of conduct committed by
the person before the specified date,
where the Secretary of State is satisfied
that the direction is justified on the
grounds of public policy, public security
or public health in accordance with
regulation 27 of the EEA Regulations,
irrespective of whether the EEA
Regulations apply to that person
(except that in regulation 27 for “with a
right of permanent residence under
regulation 15” and “has a right of
permanent residence under regulation
15” read “who, but for the making of the
exclusion direction, meets the
requirements of paragraph EU11,
EU11A or EU12 of Appendix EU to the
Immigration Rules”; and for “an EEA
decision” read “an exclusion direction”)

joining family
member of a
relevant
sponsor

a person who has satisfied the
Secretary of State, including by the
required evidence of family relationship,
that they are (and for the relevant
period have been), or (as the case may
be) for the relevant period (or at the
relevant time) they were:
(a) the spouse or civil partner of a
relevant sponsor, and
(i)(aa) the marriage was contracted or
the civil partnership was formed before
the specified date; or
(bb) the applicant was the durable
partner of the relevant sponsor before
the specified date (the definition of
‘durable partner’ in this table being met
before that date rather than at the date
of application), and the partnership
remained durable at the specified date;
and
(ii)(aa) (unless the applicant relies on
meeting condition 1 or condition 3 of
paragraph EU11A of this Appendix, or

on being a family member who has
retained the right of residence by virtue
of a relationship with a relevant
sponsor) the marriage or civil
partnership continues to exist at the
date of application; or
(bb) (where the applicant relies on
meeting condition 1 of paragraph
EU11A of this Appendix) the marriage
or civil partnership existed for the
relevant period; or
(cc) (where the applicant relies on
meeting condition 3 of paragraph
EU11A of this Appendix) the marriage
or civil partnership existed immediately
before the death of the relevant
sponsor; or
(b) the specified spouse or civil
partner of a Swiss citizen; or
(c) the durable partner of a relevant
sponsor, and:
(i) the partnership was formed and was
durable before the specified date; and
(ii)(aa) (unless the applicant relies on
meeting condition 1 or condition 3 of
paragraph EU11A of this Appendix, or
on being a family member who has
retained the right of residence by virtue
of a relationship with a relevant
sponsor) the partnership remains
durable at the date of application; or
(bb) (where the applicant relies on
meeting condition 1 of paragraph
EU11A of this Appendix) the
partnership remained durable for the
relevant period; or
(cc) (where the applicant relies on
meeting condition 3 of paragraph
EU11A of this Appendix) the
partnership remained durable
immediately before the death of the
relevant sponsor; or
(d) the child or dependent parent of a
relevant sponsor, and the family
relationship:
(i) existed before the specified date
(unless, in the case of a child, the

person was born after that date, was
adopted after that date in accordance
with a relevant adoption decision or
after that date became a child within
the meaning of that entry in this table
on the basis of one of sub-paragraphs
(a)(iii) to (a)(xi) of that entry); and
(ii) continues to exist at the date of
application (or did so for the period of
residence relied upon); or
(e) the child or dependent parent of the
spouse or civil partner of a relevant
sponsor, as described in sub-paragraph
(a) above, and all the family
relationships:
(i) existed before the specified date
(unless, in the case of a child, the
person was born after that date, was
adopted after that date in accordance
with a relevant adoption decision or
after that date became a child within
the meaning of that entry in this table
on the basis of one of sub-paragraphs
(a)(iii) to (a)(xi) of that entry); and
(ii) continue to exist at the date of
application (or did so for the period of
residence relied upon)
in addition, the person meets one of the
following requirements:
(a) (where sub-paragraph (c) or (d)
below does not apply) they were not
resident in the UK and Islands on a
basis which met the definition of ‘family
member of a relevant EEA citizen’ in
this table (where that relevant EEA
citizen is their relevant sponsor) at any
time before the specified date; or
(b) (where sub-paragraph (c) or (d)
below does not apply) they were
resident in the UK and Islands before
the specified date, and:
(i) one of the events referred to in subparagraph (b)(i) or (b)(ii) in the
definition of ‘continuous qualifying
period’ in this table has occurred, and
after that event occurred they were not

resident in the UK and Islands again
before the specified date; or
(ii) the event referred to in subparagraph (a) in the definition of
‘supervening event’ in this table has
occurred, and after that event occurred
they were not resident in the UK and
Islands again before the specified date;
or
(iii) they are the specified spouse or
civil partner of a Swiss citizen, and they
do not rely on any period of residence
in the UK and Islands before the
marriage was contracted or the civil
partnership was formed; or
(c) (where sub-paragraph (d) below
does not apply) where the person is a
child born after the specified date or
adopted after that date in accordance
with a relevant adoption decision, or
after the specified date became a child
within the meaning of that entry in this
table on the basis of one of subparagraphs (a)(iii) to (a)(xi) of that entry
(with the references below to ‘parents’
in this sub-paragraph construed to
include the guardian or other person to
whom the order or other provision
referred to in the relevant subparagraph of (a)(iii) to (a)(xi) of that
entry relates), one of the following
requirements is met:
(i) both of their parents are a relevant
sponsor; or
(ii) one of their parents is a relevant
sponsor and the other is a British
citizen who is not a relevant sponsor; or
(iii) one of their parents is a relevant
sponsor who has sole or joint rights of
custody of them, in accordance with the
applicable rules of family law of the UK,
of the Islands or of a country listed in
sub-paragraph (a)(i) of the entry for
‘EEA citizen’ in this table (including
applicable rules of private international
law under which rights of custody under
the law of a third country are

recognised in the UK, in the Islands or
in a country listed in sub-paragraph (a)
(i) of the entry for ‘EEA citizen’ in this
table, in particular as regards the best
interests of the child, and without
prejudice to the normal operation of
such applicable rules of private
international law); or
(d) where the person is a child born
after the specified date to (or adopted
after that date in accordance with a
relevant adoption decision by or after
that date became, within the meaning
of the entry for ‘child’ in this table and
on the basis of one of sub-paragraphs
(a)(iii) to (a)(xi) of that entry, a child of)
a Swiss citizen or their spouse or civil
partner (as described in the first subparagraph (a) in this entry), the Swiss
citizen or their spouse or civil partner is
a relevant sponsor
non-EEA
citizen

a person who is not an EEA citizen and
is not a British citizen

person
exempt from
immigration
control

a person who:
(a) is a national of: Austria, Belgium,
Bulgaria, Croatia, Republic of Cyprus,
Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia,
Finland, France, Germany, Greece,
Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Latvia,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg,
Malta, Netherlands, Norway, Poland,
Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia,
Spain, Sweden or Switzerland; and
(b) is not a British citizen; and
(c) is exempt from immigration control
in accordance with section 8(2), (3) or
(4) of the Immigration Act 1971

person who
has ceased
activity

the person:
(a) has terminated activity as a worker
or self-employed person in the UK and
either reached the age of entitlement to
a state pension on terminating that
activity or, in the case of a worker,

ceased working to take early
retirement; and immediately before that
termination, was a worker or selfemployed person in the UK for at least
12 months and resided in the UK and
Islands for a continuous qualifying
period of more than three years; or
(b) stopped being a worker or selfemployed person in the UK owing to
permanent incapacity to work, having
resided in the UK and Islands for a
continuous qualifying period of more
than the preceding two years or the
incapacity having resulted from an
accident at work or an occupational
disease that entitles the person to a
pension payable in full or in part by an
institution in the UK; or
(c) resided for a continuous qualifying
period in the UK of at least three years
as a worker or self-employed person,
immediately before becoming a worker
or self-employed person in a country
listed in sub-paragraph (a)(i) of the
entry for ‘EEA citizen’ in this table, while
retaining a place of residence in the UK
to which they return, as a rule, at least
once a week
in addition, the conditions as to length
of residence and of employment in subparagraphs (a) and (b) above do not
apply where the Secretary of State is
satisfied, including by the required
evidence of family relationship, that the
relevant EEA citizen (or, as the case
may be, the relevant sponsor) is the
spouse or civil partner of a British
citizen (substituting ‘British citizen’ for
‘relevant EEA citizen’ in the entry for, as
the case may be, ‘spouse’ or ‘civil
partner’ in this table)
person who
had a
derivative or
Zambrano

a person who, before the specified
date, was a person with a derivative
right to reside or a person with a
Zambrano right to reside, immediately

right to reside

before they became (whether before or
after the specified date):
(a) a relevant EEA citizen; or
(b) a family member of a relevant EEA
citizen; or
(c) a person with a derivative right to
reside; or
(d) a person with a Zambrano right to
reside; or
(e) a family member of a qualifying
British citizen,
and who has remained or (as the case
may be) remained in any (or any
combination) of those categories
(including where they subsequently
became a family member who has
retained the right of residence by virtue
of a relationship with a relevant EEA
citizen or with a qualifying British
citizen)
in addition, where a person relies on
meeting this definition, the continuous
qualifying period in which they rely on
doing so must have been continuing at
2300 GMT on 31 December 2020

person who is
subject to a
non-adoptive
legal
guardianship
order

a person who has satisfied the
Secretary of State that, before the
specified date, they:
(a) are under the age of 18 years; and
(b) are subject to a non-adoptive legal
guardianship order in favour (solely or
jointly with another party) of a relevant
EEA citizen or, as the case may be, of a
qualifying British citizen (who, in either
case, is their ‘sponsoring person’ in
accordance with the second subparagraph (b) in the entry for
‘dependent relative’ in this table) that:
(i) is recognised under the national law
of the state in which it was contracted;
and
(ii) places parental responsibility on a
permanent basis on the relevant EEA
citizen or, as the case may be, on the
qualifying British citizen (in either case,

solely or jointly with another party); and
(c) have lived with the relevant EEA
citizen (or, as the case may be, with the
qualifying British citizen) since their
placement under the guardianship
order; and
(d) have created family life with the
relevant EEA citizen (or, as the case
may be, with the qualifying British
citizen); and
(e) have a personal relationship with
the relevant EEA citizen (or, as the
case may be, with the qualifying British
citizen) that involves dependency on
the relevant EEA citizen (or, as the
case may be, on the qualifying British
citizen) and the assumption of parental
responsibility, including legal and
financial responsibilities, for that person
by the relevant EEA citizen (or, as the
case may be, by the qualifying British
citizen)
person with a
derivative
right to reside

a person who has satisfied the
Secretary of State by evidence
provided that they are (and for the
relevant period have been) or (as the
case may be) for the relevant period
they were:
(a) resident for a continuous qualifying
period in the UK which began before
the specified date and throughout
which the following criteria are met:
(i) they are not an exempt person; and
(ii) they are the primary carer of an
EEA citizen (in accordance with subparagraph (a)(i) of that entry in this
table and, where they are also a British
citizen, the EEA citizen falls within subparagraphs (c) and (d) of the entry for
‘relevant naturalised British citizen’ in
this table); and
(iii) the EEA citizen is under the age of
18 years and resides in the UK as a
self-sufficient person; and
(iv) the EEA citizen would in practice be
unable to remain in the UK if the person

in fact left the UK for an indefinite
period; and
(v) they are not subject to a decision
made under regulation 23(6)(b), 24(1),
25(1), 26(3) or 31(1) of the EEA
Regulations, unless that decision has
been set aside or otherwise no longer
has effect; or
(b) resident for a continuous qualifying
period in the UK which began before
the specified date and throughout
which the following criteria are met:
(i) they are not an exempt person; and
(ii) they are in education in the UK; and
(iii) any of the person’s parents (“PP”) is
an EEA citizen (in accordance with subparagraph (a)(i) of that entry in this
table and, where they are also a British
citizen, PP falls within sub-paragraphs
(c) and (d) of the entry for ‘relevant
naturalised British citizen’ in this table)
who resides or has resided in the UK;
and
(iv) both the person and PP reside or
have resided in the UK at the same
time and during such a period of
residence PP has been a worker or
self-employed person in the UK; and
(v) they are not subject to a decision
made under regulation 23(6)(b), 24(1),
25(1), 26(3) or 31(1) of the EEA
Regulations, unless that decision has
been set aside or otherwise no longer
has effect; or
(c) resident for a continuous qualifying
period in the UK which began before
the specified date and throughout
which the following criteria are met:
(i) they are not an exempt person; and
(ii) they are the primary carer of a
person who meets the requirements of
sub-paragraph (b) above (“PPP”); and
(iii) PPP would in practice be unable to
continue to be educated in the UK if the
person in fact left the UK for an
indefinite period; and
(iv) they are not subject to a decision

made under regulation 23(6)(b), 24(1),
25(1), 26(3) or 31(1) of the EEA
Regulations, unless that decision has
been set aside or otherwise no longer
has effect; or
(d) resident for a continuous qualifying
period in the UK which began before
the specified date and throughout
which the following criteria are met:
(i) they are not an exempt person; and
(ii) they are under the age of 18 years
(unless they were previously granted
limited leave to enter or remain under
paragraph EU3 of this Appendix as a
person with a derivative right to reside
and were under 18 at the date of
application for that leave); and
(iii) their primary carer meets the
requirements of sub-paragraph (a) or
(c) above; and
(iv) the primary carer would in practice
be prevented from residing in the UK if
the person in fact left the UK for an
indefinite period; and
(v) they do not have leave to enter or
remain in the UK, unless this:
(aa) was granted under this Appendix;
or
(bb) is in effect by virtue of section 3C
of the Immigration Act 1971; or
(cc) is leave to enter granted by virtue
of having arrived in the UK with an
entry clearance in the form of an EU
Settlement Scheme Family Permit
granted under Appendix EU (Family
Permit) to these Rules on the basis
they met sub-paragraph (a)(ii) of the
definition of ‘specified EEA family
permit case’ in Annex 1 to that
Appendix; and
(vi) they are not subject to a decision
made under regulation 23(6)(b), 24(1),
25(1), 26(3) or 31(1) of the EEA
Regulations, unless that decision has
been set aside or otherwise no longer
has effect

in addition:
(a) ‘relevant period’ means here the
continuous qualifying period in which
the person relies on meeting this
definition; and
(b) unless the applicant relies on being
a person who had a derivative or
Zambrano right to reside or a relevant
EEA family permit case, the relevant
period must have been continuing at
2300 GMT on 31 December 2020; and
(c) where the role of primary carer is
shared with another person in
accordance with sub-paragraph (b)(ii)
of the entry for ‘primary carer’ in this
table, the reference to ‘the person’ in
sub-paragraphs (a)(iv) and (c)(iii) above
is to be read as ‘both primary carers’;
and
(d) ‘self-sufficient person’ means a
person with sufficient resources not to
become a burden on the social
assistance system of the UK,
regardless of whether they hold
comprehensive sickness insurance
cover in the UK; and
(e) ‘education in the UK’ excludes
nursery education but does not exclude
education received before the
compulsory school age where that
education is equivalent to the education
received at or after the compulsory
school age
person with a
Zambrano
right to reside

a person who has satisfied the
Secretary of State by evidence
provided that they are (and for the
relevant period have been) or (as the
case may be) for the relevant period
they were:
(a) resident for a continuous qualifying
period in the UK which began before
the specified date and throughout
which the following criteria are met:
(i) they are not an exempt person; and
(ii) they are the primary carer of a
British citizen who resides in the UK;

and
(iii) the British citizen would in practice
be unable to reside in the UK, the
European Economic Area or
Switzerland if the person in fact left the
UK for an indefinite period; and
(iv) they do not have leave to enter or
remain in the UK, unless this:
(aa) was granted under this Appendix;
or
(bb) is in effect by virtue of section 3C
of the Immigration Act 1971; or
(cc) is leave to enter granted by virtue
of having arrived in the UK with an
entry clearance in the form of an EU
Settlement Scheme Family Permit
granted under Appendix EU (Family
Permit) to these Rules on the basis
they met sub-paragraph (a)(ii) of the
definition of ‘specified EEA family
permit case’ in Annex 1 to that
Appendix; and
(v) they are not subject to a decision
made under regulation 23(6)(b), 24(1),
25(1), 26(3) or 31(1) of the EEA
Regulations, unless that decision has
been set aside or otherwise no longer
has effect; or
(b) resident for a continuous qualifying
period in the UK which began before
the specified date and throughout
which the following criteria are met:
(i) they are not an exempt person; and
(ii) they are under the age of 18 years
(unless they were previously granted
limited leave to enter or remain under
paragraph EU3 of this Appendix as a
person with a Zambrano right to reside
and were under 18 at the date of
application for that leave); and
(iii) their primary carer meets the
requirements of sub-paragraph (a)
above; and
(iv) the primary carer would in practice
be prevented from residing in the UK if
the person in fact left the UK for an
indefinite period; and

(v) they do not have leave to enter or
remain in the UK, unless this:
(aa) was granted under this Appendix;
or
(bb) is in effect by virtue of section 3C
of the Immigration Act 1971; or
(cc) is leave to enter granted by virtue
of having arrived in the UK with an
entry clearance in the form of an EU
Settlement Scheme Family Permit
granted under Appendix EU (Family
Permit) to these Rules on the basis
they met sub-paragraph (a)(ii) of the
definition of ‘specified EEA family
permit case’ in Annex 1 to that
Appendix; and
(vi) they are not subject to a decision
made under regulation 23(6)(b), 24(1),
25(1), 26(3) or 31(1) of the EEA
Regulations, unless that decision has
been set aside or otherwise no longer
has effect
in addition:
(a) ‘relevant period’ means here the
continuous qualifying period in which
the person relies on meeting this
definition; and
(b) unless the applicant relies on being
a person who had a derivative or
Zambrano right to reside or a relevant
EEA family permit case, the relevant
period must have been continuing at
2300 GMT on 31 December 2020; and
(c) where the role of primary carer is
shared with another person in
accordance with sub-paragraph (b)(ii)
of the entry for ‘primary carer’ in this
table, the reference to ‘the person’ in
sub-paragraph (a)(iii) above is to be
read as ‘both primary carers’
primary carer

a person who:
(a) is a direct relative or legal guardian
of another person (“AP”); and
(b)(i) has primary responsibility for AP’s
care; or

(ii) shares equally the responsibility for
AP’s care with one other person, unless
that other person had acquired a
derivative right to reside in the UK as a
result of regulation 16 of the EEA
Regulations, or relied on meeting this
definition in being granted the indefinite
leave to enter or remain or limited leave
to enter or remain they hold under this
Appendix, before the person assumed
equal care responsibility
in addition, a person is not to be
regarded as having responsibility for
AP’s care on the sole basis of a
financial contribution towards that care
qualifying
British citizen

a British citizen who:
(a) has (or, as the case may be, for the
relevant period had) returned to the UK
with (or ahead of) the applicant:
(i) (where sub-paragraph (a)(ii) below
does not apply) before 2300 GMT on
29 March 2022 (or later where the
Secretary of State is satisfied that there
are reasonable grounds for the
person’s failure to meet that deadline);
or
(ii) (in the case of a family member of a
qualifying British citizen as described in
sub-paragraph (a)(ii), (a)(iv), (a)(vii) or
(a)(viii) of the entry for ‘family member
of a qualifying British citizen’ in this
table) before 2300 GMT on 31
December 2020 (or later where the
Secretary of State is satisfied that there
are reasonable grounds for the
person’s failure to meet that deadline);
and
(b) satisfied regulation 9(2), (3) and (4)
(a) of the EEA Regulations (as the
British citizen (“BC”) to whom those
provisions refer):
(i) (save where the applicant is a child
as described in sub-paragraph (a)(v),
(a)(vi) or (a)(vii) of the entry for ‘family
member of a qualifying British citizen’ in

this table who was born after 2300
GMT on 31 December 2020, was
adopted thereafter in accordance with a
relevant adoption decision or thereafter
became a child within the meaning of
that entry in this table on the basis of
one of sub-paragraphs (a)(iii) to (a)(xi)
of that entry) before 2300 GMT on 31
December 2020; and
(ii) immediately before returning to the
UK with (or ahead of) the applicant
(who is to be treated as the family
member (“F”) or, as the case may be,
as the extended family member
(“EFM”), to whom those provisions
refer); and
(c) was continuously resident in the UK
in accordance with regulation 3 of the
EEA Regulations throughout any period
on which the applicant relies as being
present in the UK by virtue of being a
family member of a qualifying British
citizen
in addition:
(i) for the avoidance of doubt, for the
purposes of sub-paragraph (b) above,
service as a member of HM Forces (as
defined in the Armed Forces Act 2006)
in a country listed in sub-paragraph (a)
(i) of the entry for ‘EEA citizen’ in this
table may satisfy the conditions of
being a “worker” for the purposes of the
EEA Regulations; and
(ii) for the purposes of sub-paragraph
(i) immediately above, sub-paragraph
(a)(i) of the entry for ‘EEA citizen’ in this
table will be treated as referring also to
the Sovereign Base Areas on Cyprus
relevant
adoption
decision

an adoption decision taken:
(a) by the competent administrative
authority or court in the UK or the
Islands; or
(b) by the competent administrative
authority or court in a country whose

adoption orders are recognised by the
UK or the Islands; or
(c) in a particular case in which that
decision in another country has been
recognised in the UK or the Islands as
an adoption
relevant
document

(a)(i)(aa) a family permit, registration
certificate, residence card, document
certifying permanent residence,
permanent residence card or derivative
residence card issued by the UK under
the EEA Regulations on the basis of an
application made under the EEA
Regulations before (in the case, where
the applicant is not a dependent
relative, of a family permit) 1 July 2021
and otherwise before the specified date
(or, in any case, a letter from the
Secretary of State, issued after 30 June
2021, confirming their qualification for
such a document, had the route not
closed after 30 June 2021); or
(bb) (where the applicant is a family
member of a relevant person of
Northern Ireland and is a dependent
relative or durable partner) other
evidence which satisfies the Secretary
of State of the same matters under this
Appendix concerning the relationship
and (where relevant) dependency as a
document to which sub-paragraph (a)(i)
(aa) above refers; for the purposes of
this provision, where the Secretary of
State is so satisfied, such evidence is
deemed to be the equivalent of a
document to which sub-paragraph (a)(i)
(aa) above refers; or
(ii) a document or other evidence
equivalent to a document to which subparagraph (a)(i)(aa) above refers, and
issued by the Islands under the
relevant legislation there evidencing the
entitlement to enter or reside in the
Islands or the right of permanent
residence in the Islands through the
application there of section 7(1) of the

Immigration Act 1988 (as it had effect
before it was repealed) or under the
Immigration (European Economic Area)
Regulations of the Isle of Man; or
(iii) a biometric residence card issued
by virtue of having been granted limited
leave to enter or remain under this
Appendix; or
(iv) an entry clearance in the form of an
EU Settlement Scheme Family Permit
granted under or outside Appendix EU
(Family Permit) to these Rules; and
(b) it was not subsequently revoked, or
fell to be so, because the relationship
or dependency had never existed or the
relationship or (where relevant)
dependency had ceased; and
(c) (subject to sub-paragraphs (d) and
(e) below) it has not expired or
otherwise ceased to be effective, or it
remained valid for the period of
residence relied upon; and
(d) for the purposes of the reference to
‘relevant document’ in the first subparagraph (b) of the entry for
‘dependent relative’ in this table, in subparagraph (b)(i) of the entry for ‘durable
partner’ in this table and in subparagraphs (e) and (f) of the entry for
‘required evidence of family
relationship’ in this table, the relevant
document may have expired, where:
(i) before it expired, the applicant
applied for a further relevant document
(as described in sub-paragraph (a)(i)
(aa) or (a)(iii) above) on the basis of the
same family relationship as that on
which that earlier relevant document
was issued; and
(ii) the further relevant document to
which sub-paragraph (d)(i) above refers
was issued by the date of decision on
the application under this Appendix;
and
(e) the relevant document may have
expired, where:
(i)(aa) it is a family permit (as described

in sub-paragraph (a)(i)(aa) above) or an
equivalent document or other evidence
issued by the Islands (as described in
sub-paragraph (a)(ii) above); and
(bb) it expired after the specified date
and before the required date; and
(cc) the applicant arrived in the UK
before 1 July 2021 and (unless they are
a durable partner or dependent relative)
after the specified date; or
(ii) it is a specified relevant document
relevant EEA
citizen
(where, in
respect of the
application
under
consideration,
the date of
application by
the relevant
EEA citizen or
their family
member is
before 1 July
2021)

(a) an EEA citizen (in accordance with
sub-paragraph (a) of that entry in this
table) resident in the UK and Islands for
a continuous qualifying period which
began before the specified date; or
(b) an EEA citizen (in accordance with
sub-paragraph (a) of that entry in this
table) who, having been resident in the
UK and Islands as described in subparagraph (a) above:
(i) has been granted indefinite leave to
enter or remain under paragraph EU2
of this Appendix (or under its equivalent
in the Islands), which has not lapsed or
been cancelled, revoked or invalidated
(or is being granted that leave under
that paragraph of this Appendix or
under its equivalent in the Islands); or
(ii) would, if they had made a valid
application under this Appendix before
1 July 2021, have been granted
indefinite leave to enter or remain
under paragraph EU2 of this Appendix,
which would not have lapsed or been
cancelled, revoked or invalidated
before the date of application; or
(c) where the applicant is a family
member of a relevant naturalised
British citizen, an EEA citizen in
accordance with sub-paragraph (b) of
that entry in this table; or
(d) where the applicant is the family
member (“F”) to whom paragraph 9 of
Schedule 6 to the EEA Regulations
refers and meets the criteria as F in

that paragraph, an EEA citizen:
(i) in accordance with sub-paragraph
(c) of that entry in this table; and
(ii)(aa) resident in the UK and Islands
for a continuous qualifying period which
began before the specified date; or
(bb) who, having been resident in the
UK and Islands as described in subparagraph (d)(ii)(aa) above and if they
had made a valid application under this
Appendix before 1 July 2021, would,
but for the fact that they are a British
citizen, have been granted indefinite
leave to enter or remain under
paragraph EU2 of this Appendix, which
would not have lapsed or been
cancelled, revoked or invalidated
before the date of application; or
(e) where the applicant is a family
member of a relevant person of
Northern Ireland, an EEA citizen (in
accordance with sub-paragraph (d) of
that entry in this table):
(i) resident in the UK and Islands for a
continuous qualifying period which,
unless they are a specified relevant
person of Northern Ireland, began
before the specified date; or
(ii) who, having been resident in the UK
and Islands as described in subparagraph (e)(i) above (where they are
a relevant person of Northern Ireland in
accordance with sub-paragraph (a)(ii)
of that entry in this table):
(aa) has been granted indefinite leave
to enter or remain under paragraph
EU2 of this Appendix (or under its
equivalent in the Islands), which has
not lapsed or been cancelled, revoked
or invalidated (or is being granted that
leave under that paragraph of this
Appendix or under its equivalent in the
Islands); or
(bb) would, if they had made a valid
application under this Appendix before
1 July 2021, have been granted
indefinite leave to enter or remain

under paragraph EU2 of this Appendix,
which would not have lapsed or been
cancelled, revoked or invalidated
before the date of application; or
(iii) who, having been resident in the
UK and Islands as described in subparagraph (e)(i) above and if they had
made a valid application under this
Appendix before 1 July 2021, would,
but for the fact (where they are a
relevant person of Northern Ireland in
accordance with sub-paragraph (a)(i) or
(a)(iii) of that entry in this table) that
they are a British citizen, have been
granted indefinite leave to enter or
remain under paragraph EU2 of this
Appendix, which would not have lapsed
or been cancelled, revoked or
invalidated before the date of
application; or
(f) where the applicant is their family
member, a person exempt from
immigration control:
(i) resident in the UK and Islands for a
continuous qualifying period which
began before the specified date; or
(ii) who, having been resident in the UK
and Islands as described in subparagraph (f)(i) above and if they had
made a valid application under this
Appendix before 1 July 2021, would
have been granted indefinite leave to
enter or remain under paragraph EU2
of this Appendix, which would not have
lapsed or been cancelled, revoked or
invalidated before the date of
application; or
(g) where the applicant is their family
member, a frontier worker
relevant EEA
citizen
(where, in
respect of the
application
under
consideration,

(a)(i) an EEA citizen (in accordance
with sub-paragraph (a) of that entry in
this table) resident in the UK and
Islands for a continuous qualifying
period which began before the
specified date; and
(ii) where the applicant is their family

the date of
application by
the relevant
EEA citizen or
their family
member is on
or after 1 July
2021)

member, the EEA citizen, having been
resident in the UK and Islands as
described in sub-paragraph (a)(i)
above, has been granted:
(aa) indefinite leave to enter or remain
under paragraph EU2 of this Appendix
(or under its equivalent in the Islands),
which has not lapsed or been
cancelled, revoked or invalidated; or
(bb) limited leave to enter or remain
under paragraph EU3 of this Appendix
(or under its equivalent in the Islands),
which has not lapsed or been
cancelled, curtailed or invalidated; or
(b)(i) an EEA citizen (in accordance
with sub-paragraph (a) of that entry in
this table) resident in the UK and
Islands for a continuous qualifying
period which began before the
specified date; and
(ii) where the applicant is their family
member, the EEA citizen, having been
resident in the UK and Islands as
described in sub-paragraph (b)(i)
above, would, if they had made a valid
application under this Appendix before
1 July 2021, have been granted:
(aa) indefinite leave to enter or remain
under paragraph EU2 of this Appendix,
which would not have lapsed or been
cancelled, revoked or invalidated
before the date of application; or
(bb) limited leave to enter or remain
under paragraph EU3 of this Appendix,
which would not have lapsed or been
cancelled, curtailed or invalidated
before the date of application; or
(c) where the applicant is a family
member of a person who falls within
sub-paragraphs (a), (c) and (d) of the
entry for ‘relevant naturalised British
citizen’ in this table, the person falling
within those sub-paragraphs who, if
they had made a valid application
under this Appendix before 1 July 2021,
would, but for the fact that they are a
British citizen, have been granted:

(i) indefinite leave to enter or remain
under paragraph EU2 of this Appendix,
which would not have lapsed or been
cancelled, revoked or invalidated
before the date of application; or
(ii) limited leave to enter or remain
under paragraph EU3 of this Appendix,
which would not have lapsed or been
cancelled, curtailed or invalidated
before the date of application; or
(d) where the applicant is the family
member (“F”) to whom paragraph 9 of
Schedule 6 to the EEA Regulations
refers and meets the criteria as F in
that paragraph, an EEA citizen:
(i) in accordance with sub-paragraph
(c) of that entry in this table; and
(ii) resident in the UK and Islands for a
continuous qualifying period which
began before the specified date; and
(iii) who, having been resident in the
UK and Islands as described in subparagraph (d)(ii) above and if they had
made a valid application under this
Appendix before 1 July 2021, would,
but for the fact that they are a British
citizen, have been granted:
(aa) indefinite leave to enter or remain
under paragraph EU2 of this Appendix,
which would not have lapsed or been
cancelled, revoked or invalidated
before the date of application; or
(bb) limited leave to enter or remain
under paragraph EU3 of this Appendix,
which would not have lapsed or been
cancelled, curtailed or invalidated
before the date of application; or
(e) where the applicant is a family
member of a relevant person of
Northern Ireland, an EEA citizen (in
accordance with sub-paragraph (d) of
that entry in this table):
(i) where they are a relevant person of
Northern Ireland in accordance with
sub-paragraph (a)(ii) of that entry in this
table:
(aa) resident in the UK and Islands for

a continuous qualifying period which
began before the specified date; and
(bb) who, having been resident in the
UK and Islands as described in subparagraph (e)(i)(aa) above:
(aaa) has been granted indefinite leave
to enter or remain under paragraph
EU2 of this Appendix (or under its
equivalent in the Islands), which has
not lapsed or been cancelled, revoked
or invalidated; or
(bbb) has been granted limited leave to
enter or remain under paragraph EU3
of this Appendix (or under its equivalent
in the Islands), which has not lapsed or
been cancelled, curtailed or invalidated;
or
(ccc) if they had made a valid
application under this Appendix before
1 July 2021, would have been granted
indefinite leave to enter or remain
under paragraph EU2 of this Appendix,
which would not have lapsed or been
cancelled, revoked or invalidated
before the date of application; or
(ddd) if they had made a valid
application under this Appendix before
1 July 2021, would have been granted
limited leave to enter or remain under
paragraph EU3 of this Appendix, which
would not have lapsed or been
cancelled, curtailed or invalidated
before the date of application; or
(ii) where they are a relevant person of
Northern Ireland in accordance with
sub-paragraph (a)(i) or (a)(iii) of that
entry in this table:
(aa) resident in the UK and Islands for
a continuous qualifying period which,
unless they are a specified relevant
person of Northern Ireland, began
before the specified date; and
(bb) who, having been resident in the
UK and Islands as described in subparagraph (e)(ii)(aa) above and if they
had made a valid application under this
Appendix before 1 July 2021, would,

but for the fact that they are a British
citizen, have been granted:
(aaa) indefinite leave to enter or remain
under paragraph EU2 of this Appendix,
which would not have lapsed or been
cancelled, revoked or invalidated
before the date of application; or
(bbb) limited leave to enter or remain
under paragraph EU3 of this Appendix,
which would not have lapsed or been
cancelled, curtailed or invalidated
before the date of application; or
(f) where the applicant is their family
member, a person exempt from
immigration control:
(i) resident in the UK and Islands for a
continuous qualifying period which
began before the specified date; and
(ii) who, having been resident in the UK
and Islands as described in subparagraph (f)(i) above and if they had
made a valid application under this
Appendix before 1 July 2021, would
have been granted:
(aa) indefinite leave to enter or remain
under paragraph EU2 of this Appendix,
which would not have lapsed or been
cancelled, revoked or invalidated
before the date of application; or
(bb) limited leave to enter or remain
under paragraph EU3 of this Appendix,
which would not have lapsed or been
cancelled, curtailed or invalidated
before the date of application; or
(g) where the applicant is their family
member, a frontier worker
in addition, notwithstanding what is said
above, in relation to sub-paragraphs (a)
to (f) above, it will suffice that the
relevant EEA citizen is (or, as the case
may be, for the relevant period was)
resident in the UK and Islands for a
continuous qualifying period which,
unless they are a specified relevant
person of Northern Ireland, began
before the specified date where the

applicant:
(a)(i) is (or, as the case may be, for the
relevant period was) a family member
of a relevant EEA citizen or a family
member who has retained the right of
residence by virtue of a relationship
with a relevant EEA citizen; and
(ii) has completed a continuous
qualifying period of five years under
condition 3 in the table in paragraph
EU11 of this Appendix; or
(b)(i) is a family member of a relevant
EEA citizen or a family member who
has retained the right of residence by
virtue of a relationship with a relevant
EEA citizen; and
(ii) otherwise meets the eligibility
requirements for limited leave to enter
or remain under condition 1 in the table
in paragraph EU14 of this Appendix; or
(c) relies on meeting condition 1, 2 or 6
in the table in paragraph EU11 of this
Appendix
relevant EEA
family permit
case

(a) family member of a relevant EEA
citizen who is:
(i) a dependent relative or a durable
partner who (in either case) arrived in
the UK after 2300 GMT on 31
December 2020 and by 30 June 2021
with a valid EEA family permit issued
under the EEA Regulations on the
basis of a valid application made under
the EEA Regulations before 2300 GMT
on 31 December 2020; or
(ii) a dependent relative or (on the basis
of a valid application made under the
EEA Regulations before 2300 GMT on
31 December 2020) a durable partner
who (in either case) arrived in the UK
after 2300 GMT on 31 December 2020
with an entry clearance in the form of
an EU Settlement Scheme Family
Permit granted under Appendix EU
(Family Permit) to these Rules on the
basis they met the definition in Annex 1
to that Appendix of ‘specified EEA

family permit case’; or
(b) a person with a derivative right to
reside or a person with a Zambrano
right to reside who (in either case)
arrived in the UK after 2300 GMT on 31
December 2020 and by 30 June 2021
with a valid EEA family permit issued
under the EEA Regulations on the
basis of a valid application made under
the EEA Regulations before 2300 GMT
on 31 December 2020; or
(c) a person with a derivative right to
reside or a person with a Zambrano
right to reside who (in either case)
arrived in the UK after 2300 GMT on 31
December 2020 with an entry
clearance in the form of an EU
Settlement Scheme Family Permit
granted under Appendix EU (Family
Permit) to these Rules on the basis
they met the definition in Annex 1 to
that Appendix of ‘specified EEA family
permit case’
relevant
excluded
person

a person:
(a) in respect of whom the Secretary of
State has made a decision under
Article 1F of the Refugee Convention to
exclude the person from the Refugee
Convention or under paragraph 339D
of these Rules to exclude them from
humanitarian protection; or
(b) in respect of whom the Secretary of
State has previously made a decision
that they are a person to whom Article
33(2) of the Refugee Convention
applies because there are reasonable
grounds for regarding them as a danger
to the security of the UK; or
(c) who the Secretary of State
considers to be a person in respect of
whom sub-paragraph (a) or (b) above
would apply except that:
(i) the person has not made a
protection claim; or
(ii) the person made a protection claim
which has already been finally

determined without reference to Article
1F of the Refugee Convention or
paragraph 339D of these Rules; or
(d) in respect of whom the Secretary of
State has previously made a decision
that they are a person to whom Article
33(2) of the Refugee Convention
applies because, having been
convicted by a final judgment of a
particularly serious crime, they
constitute a danger to the community of
the UK
relevant
naturalised
British citizen

(a) an EEA citizen (in accordance with
sub-paragraph (a)(i) of that entry in this
table) resident in the UK and Islands for
a continuous qualifying period which
began before the specified date; or
(b) an EEA citizen (in accordance with
sub-paragraph (a)(i) of that entry in this
table) who, having been resident in the
UK and Islands as described in subparagraph (a) above and if they had
made a valid application under this
Appendix before 1 July 2021, would,
but for the fact that they are a British
citizen, have been granted indefinite
leave to enter or remain under
paragraph EU2 of this Appendix, which
would not have lapsed or been
cancelled, revoked or invalidated
before the date of application;
and in either case the person also:
(c) comes within paragraph (b) of the
definition of “EEA national” in regulation
2(1) of the EEA Regulations; and
(d) meets the criteria contained in
regulation 9A(2) or (3) as the dual
national (“DN”) to whom those
provisions refer (save for the
requirement in regulation 4(1)(c)(ii) and
(d)(ii) of the EEA Regulations for
comprehensive sickness insurance
cover in the UK and regardless of
whether, save in conditions 5 and 6 in
the table in paragraph EU11 of this
Appendix and in conditions 2 and 3 in

the table in paragraph EU11A, they
otherwise remained a qualified person
under regulation 6 of the EEA
Regulations after they acquired British
citizenship)
relevant
person of
Northern
Ireland

a person who:
(a) is:
(i) a British citizen; or
(ii) an Irish citizen; or
(iii) a British citizen and an Irish citizen;
and
(b) was born in Northern Ireland and, at
the time of the person’s birth, at least
one of their parents was:
(i) a British citizen; or
(ii) an Irish citizen; or
(iii) a British citizen and an Irish citizen;
or
(iv) otherwise entitled to reside in
Northern Ireland without any restriction
on their period of residence

relevant
sponsor

(a) where the date of application by a
joining family member of a relevant
sponsor is after the specified date and
before 1 July 2021:
(i) an EEA citizen (in accordance with
sub-paragraph (a) of that entry in this
table) who, having been resident in the
UK and Islands for a continuous
qualifying period which began before
the specified date, has been granted:
(aa) indefinite leave to enter or remain
under paragraph EU2 of this Appendix
(or under its equivalent in the Islands),
which has not lapsed or been
cancelled, revoked or invalidated (or is
being granted that leave under that
paragraph of this Appendix or under its
equivalent in the Islands); or
(bb) limited leave to enter or remain
under paragraph EU3 of this Appendix
(or under its equivalent in the Islands),
which has not lapsed or been
cancelled, curtailed or invalidated (or is
being granted that leave under that

paragraph of this Appendix or under its
equivalent in the Islands); or
(ii) an EEA citizen (in accordance with
sub-paragraph (a) of that entry in this
table):
(aa) resident in the UK and Islands for
a continuous qualifying period which
began before the specified date; or
(bb) who, having been resident in the
UK and Islands as described in subparagraph (a)(ii)(aa) above and if they
had made a valid application under this
Appendix before 1 July 2021, would
have been granted indefinite leave to
enter or remain under paragraph EU2
of this Appendix, which would not have
lapsed or been cancelled, revoked or
invalidated before the date of
application; or
(iii) an EEA citizen in accordance with
sub-paragraph (b) of that entry in this
table (a relevant naturalised British
citizen, in accordance with subparagraph (a) or (b), together with subparagraphs (c) and (d), of that entry in
this table); or
(iv) an EEA citizen (in accordance with
sub-paragraph (d) of that entry in this
table):
(aa) resident in the UK and Islands for
a continuous qualifying period which,
unless they are a specified relevant
person of Northern Ireland, began
before the specified date; or
(bb) who, having been resident in the
UK and Islands as described in subparagraph (a)(iv)(aa) above (where
they are a relevant person of Northern
Ireland in accordance with subparagraph (a)(ii) of that entry in this
table):
(aaa) has been granted indefinite leave
to enter or remain under paragraph
EU2 of this Appendix (or under its
equivalent in the Islands), which has
not lapsed or been cancelled, revoked
or invalidated (or is being granted that

leave under that paragraph of this
Appendix or under its equivalent in the
Islands); or
(bbb) would, if they had made a valid
application under this Appendix before
1 July 2021, have been granted
indefinite leave to enter or remain
under paragraph EU2 of this Appendix,
which would not have lapsed or been
cancelled, revoked or invalidated
before the date of application; or
(cc) who, having been resident in the
UK and Islands as described in subparagraph (a)(iv)(aa) above and if they
had made a valid application under this
Appendix before 1 July 2021, would,
but for the fact (where they are a
relevant person of Northern Ireland in
accordance with sub-paragraph (a)(i) or
(a)(iii) of that entry in this table) that
they are a British citizen, have been
granted indefinite leave to enter or
remain under paragraph EU2 of this
Appendix, which would not have lapsed
or been cancelled, revoked or
invalidated before the date of
application; or
(v) a person exempt from immigration
control:
(aa) resident in the UK and Islands for
a continuous qualifying period which
began before the specified date; or
(bb) who, having been resident in the
UK and Islands as described in subparagraph (a)(v)(aa) above and if they
had made a valid application under this
Appendix before 1 July 2021, would
have been granted indefinite leave to
enter or remain under paragraph EU2
of this Appendix, which would not have
lapsed or been cancelled, revoked or
invalidated before the date of
application; or
(vi) a frontier worker; or
(b) where the date of application by a
joining family member of a relevant
sponsor is on or after 1 July 2021:

(i) an EEA citizen (in accordance with
sub-paragraph (a) of that entry in this
table) who, having been resident in the
UK and Islands for a continuous
qualifying period which began before
the specified date, has been granted:
(aa) indefinite leave to enter or remain
under paragraph EU2 of this Appendix
(or under its equivalent in the Islands),
which has not lapsed or been
cancelled, revoked or invalidated; or
(bb) limited leave to enter or remain
under paragraph EU3 of this Appendix
(or under its equivalent in the Islands),
which has not lapsed or been
cancelled, curtailed or invalidated; or
(ii) an Irish citizen who, having been
resident in the UK and Islands for a
continuous qualifying period which
began before the specified date, would,
if they had made a valid application
under this Appendix before 1 July 2021,
have been granted:
(aa) indefinite leave to enter or remain
under paragraph EU2 of this Appendix,
which would not have lapsed or been
cancelled, revoked or invalidated
before the date of application; or
(bb) limited leave to enter or remain
under paragraph EU3 of this Appendix,
which would not have lapsed or been
cancelled, curtailed or invalidated
before the date of application; or
(iii) a person who falls within subparagraphs (a), (c) and (d) of the entry
for ‘relevant naturalised British citizen’
in this table, who, if they had made a
valid application under this Appendix
before 1 July 2021, would, but for the
fact that they are a British citizen, have
been granted:
(aa) indefinite leave to enter or remain
under paragraph EU2 of this Appendix,
which would not have lapsed or been
cancelled, revoked or invalidated
before the date of application; or
(bb) limited leave to enter or remain

under paragraph EU3 of this Appendix,
which would not have lapsed or been
cancelled, curtailed or invalidated
before the date of application; or
(iv) an EEA citizen (in accordance with
sub-paragraph (d) of that entry in this
table) who is a relevant person of
Northern Ireland in accordance with
sub-paragraph (a)(ii) of that entry in this
table:
(aa) resident in the UK and Islands for
a continuous qualifying period which
began before the specified date; and
(bb) who, having been resident in the
UK and Islands as described in subparagraph (b)(iv)(aa) above:
(aaa) has been granted indefinite leave
to enter or remain under paragraph
EU2 of this Appendix (or under its
equivalent in the Islands), which has
not lapsed or been cancelled, revoked
or invalidated; or
(bbb) if they had made a valid
application under this Appendix before
1 July 2021, would have been granted
indefinite leave to enter or remain
under paragraph EU2 of this Appendix,
which would not have lapsed or been
cancelled, revoked or invalidated
before the date of application; or
(ccc) has been granted limited leave to
enter or remain under paragraph EU3
of this Appendix (or under its equivalent
in the Islands), which has not lapsed or
been cancelled, curtailed or invalidated;
or
(ddd) if they had made a valid
application under this Appendix before
1 July 2021, would have been granted
limited leave to enter or remain under
paragraph EU3 of this Appendix, which
would not have lapsed or been
cancelled, curtailed or invalidated
before the date of application; or
(v) an EEA citizen (in accordance with
sub-paragraph (d) of that entry in this
table) who is a relevant person of

Northern Ireland in accordance with
sub-paragraph (a)(i) or (a)(iii) of that
entry in this table:
(aa) resident in the UK and Islands for
a continuous qualifying period which,
unless they are a specified relevant
person of Northern Ireland, began
before the specified date; and
(bb) who, having been resident in the
UK and Islands as described in subparagraph (b)(v)(aa) above and if they
had made a valid application under this
Appendix before 1 July 2021, would,
but for the fact that they are a British
citizen, have been granted:
(aaa) indefinite leave to enter or remain
under paragraph EU2 of this Appendix,
which would not have lapsed or been
cancelled, revoked or invalidated
before the date of application; or
(bbb) limited leave to enter or remain
under paragraph EU3 of this Appendix,
which would not have lapsed or been
cancelled, curtailed or invalidated
before the date of application; or
(vi) a person exempt from immigration
control who, having been resident in
the UK and Islands for a continuous
qualifying period which began before
the specified date and if they had made
a valid application under this Appendix
before 1 July 2021, would have been
granted:
(aa) indefinite leave to enter or remain
under paragraph EU2 of this Appendix,
which would not have lapsed or been
cancelled, revoked or invalidated
before the date of application; or
(bb) limited leave to enter or remain
under paragraph EU3 of this Appendix,
which would not have lapsed or been
cancelled, curtailed or invalidated
before the date of application; or
(vii) a frontier worker
in addition:
(a) save for the purposes of condition 3

in the table in paragraph EU11A of this
Appendix and of sub-paragraphs (a)
and (b) of the entry for ‘family member
who has retained the right of residence’
in this table, the relevant sponsor has
not died; and
(b) notwithstanding what is said above,
where the date of application by a
joining family member of a relevant
sponsor is on or after 1 July 2021, it will
suffice that the relevant sponsor is or
(as the case may be) was resident in
the UK and Islands for a continuous
qualifying period which, unless they are
a specified relevant person of Northern
Ireland, began before the specified date
where the applicant:
(i) on the basis of events which
occurred during the period to which
sub-paragraph (a)(ii)(aa) or (a)(iii)(aa)
of the entry for ‘required date’ in this
table refers, relies on being a family
member who has retained the right of
residence by virtue of a relationship
with a relevant sponsor, or has limited
leave to enter or remain granted on that
basis under paragraph EU3A of this
Appendix; or
(ii) relies on meeting condition 3 in the
table in paragraph EU11A of this
Appendix; or
(iii)(aa) has limited leave to enter or
remain granted under paragraph EU3A
of this Appendix; and
(bb) would have been eligible for
indefinite leave to enter or remain
under condition 1, 2 or 3 in the table in
paragraph EU11A of this Appendix, had
they made a further valid application
under this Appendix (subsequently to
that which led to the grant of leave to
which sub-paragraph (b)(iii)(aa)
immediately above refers) before the
indefinite or limited leave to enter or
remain granted under paragraph EU2
or (as the case may be) EU3 to their
relevant sponsor lapsed or was

cancelled, curtailed, revoked or
invalidated (or would have done so or
been so, where the first sub-paragraph
(b)(ii) above or sub-paragraph (b)(iii),
(b)(iv)(bb)(bbb), (b)(iv)(bb)(ddd), (b)(v)
or (b)(vi) above applies); for the
purposes of this provision, the
reference to continuous qualifying
period in this sub-paragraph (b) will be
treated as a relevant reference for the
purposes of sub-paragraph (c)(v) of the
entry for ‘continuous qualifying period’
in this table, where sub-paragraph (c)
(i), (c)(ii), (c)(iii) or (c)(iv) of that entry
does not apply
required
application
process

(a) (unless sub-paragraph (b) or (c)
applies) the relevant on-line application
form and a relevant process set out in
that form for:
(i) providing the required proof of
identity and nationality or (as the case
may be) the required proof of
entitlement to apply from outside the
UK; and
(ii) providing the required biometrics; or
(b) the required paper application form
where this is mandated on gov.uk and a
relevant process set out in that form for:
(i) providing the required proof of
identity and nationality or (as the case
may be) the required proof of
entitlement to apply from outside the
UK; and
(ii) providing the required biometrics; or
(c) a paper application form where this
has been issued individually to the
applicant by the Secretary of State, via
the relevant process for this set out on
gov.uk, and a relevant process set out
in that form for:
(i) providing the required proof of
identity and nationality or (as the case
may be) the required proof of
entitlement to apply from outside the
UK; and

(ii) providing the required biometrics
in addition, where a paper application
form is used under sub-paragraph (b)
or (c) above, it must be sent by prepaid post or courier to the Home Office
address specified on the form (where
one is specified), or by e-mail to the
Home Office email address specified
on the form (where one is specified)
required
biometrics

(a) a facial photograph of the applicant
(within the meaning of “biometric
information” in section 15 of the UK
Borders Act 2007); and
(b) (in the case of a non-EEA citizen
without a specified relevant document
making an application within the UK)
the fingerprints of the applicant (also
within that meaning of “biometric
information”; unless, in accordance with
guidance published by the Secretary of
State and in force at the date of
application, they are not required to
provide these),
in both cases provided in accordance
with the required application process

required date

(a) where the applicant does not have
indefinite leave to enter or remain or
limited leave to enter or remain granted
under this Appendix:
(i) (where sub-paragraphs (a)(ii) to (a)
(vii) below do not apply) the date of
application is:
(aa) before 1 July 2021; or
(bb) (where the deadline in subparagraph (a)(i)(aa) above was not met
and the Secretary of State is satisfied
by information provided with the
application that, at the date of
application, there are reasonable
grounds for the person’s delay in
making their application) on or after 1
July 2021; or
(ii) (where the applicant relies on being

a joining family member of a relevant
sponsor and the date on which the
applicant first arrived in the UK after the
specified date was on or after 1 April
2021, and where sub-paragraph (a)(iii),
(a)(viii) or (a)(ix) below does not apply,
or the applicant relies on being a child
born in the UK on or after 1 April 2021
or adopted in the UK on or after that
date in accordance with a relevant
adoption decision, or on becoming on
or after 1 April 2021 a child in the UK
within the meaning of the entry for
‘child’ in this table on the basis of one
of sub-paragraphs (a)(iii) to (a)(xi) of
that entry) the date of application is:
(aa) within three months of the date on
which they first arrived in the UK after
the specified date (or, as the case may
be, of the date on which they were born
in the UK, adopted in the UK or
became a child in the UK within the
meaning of the entry for ‘child’ in this
table on the basis of one of subparagraphs (a)(iii) to (a)(xi) of that
entry); or
(bb) (where the deadline in subparagraph (a)(ii)(aa) above was not met
and the Secretary of State is satisfied
by information provided with the
application that, at the date of
application, there are reasonable
grounds for the person’s delay in
making their application) after that
deadline; or
(iii) (where the applicant relies on being
a joining family member of a relevant
sponsor as described in sub-paragraph
(b) of that entry in this table and the
date on which the applicant first arrived
in the UK after the specified date was
on or after 1 April 2021, and where subparagraph (a)(viii) or (a)(ix) below does
not apply) the date of application is:
(aa) within three months of the date on
which they first arrived in the UK after
the specified date, and before 1

January 2026; or
(bb) (where the deadline in subparagraph (a)(iii)(aa) above was not
met and the Secretary of State is
satisfied by information provided with
the application that, at the date of
application, there are reasonable
grounds for the person’s delay in
making their application) after that
deadline; or
(iv) (where the applicant relies on being
a family member of a qualifying British
citizen and sub-paragraph (a)(v) below
does not apply) the date of application
is before 9 August 2023; or
(v) (where the applicant relies on being
a family member of a qualifying British
citizen, and has, or as the case may be
had, leave to enter granted by virtue of
having arrived in the UK with an entry
clearance in the form of an EU
Settlement Scheme Family Permit
granted under Appendix EU (Family
Permit) to these Rules on the basis
they met the definition of ‘family
member of a qualifying British citizen’ in
Annex 1 to that Appendix, and that
leave has, or had, not been cancelled,
curtailed or invalidated) the date of
application is:
(aa) before the date of expiry of that
leave; or
(bb) (where the deadline in subparagraph (a)(v)(aa) above was not
met and the Secretary of State is
satisfied by information provided with
the application that, at the date of
application, there are reasonable
grounds for the person’s delay in
making their application) after the date
of expiry of that leave; or
(vi) (where the applicant relies on being
a person with a Zambrano right to
reside and sub-paragraph (a)(vii) below
does not apply) the date of application
is before 9 August 2023; or
(vii) (where the applicant relies on

being a person with a Zambrano right
to reside, and has, or as the case may
be had, leave to enter granted by virtue
of having arrived in the UK with an
entry clearance in the form of an EU
Settlement Scheme Family Permit
granted under Appendix EU (Family
Permit) to these Rules on the basis
they met sub-paragraph (a)(ii) of the
definition of ‘specified EEA family
permit case’ in Annex 1 to that
Appendix, and that leave has, or had,
not been cancelled, curtailed or
invalidated) the date of application is:
(aa) before the date of expiry of that
leave; or
(bb) (where the deadline in subparagraph (a)(vii)(aa) above was not
met and the Secretary of State is
satisfied by information provided with
the application that, at the date of
application, there are reasonable
grounds for the person’s delay in
making their application) after the date
of expiry of that leave; or
(viii) (in the case of an applicant to
whom the deadline in sub-paragraph
(a)(i)(aa), (a)(ii)(aa) or (a)(iii)(aa) above
applies, who has, or had, limited leave
to enter or remain granted under
another part of these Rules or outside
the Immigration Rules (except where
such leave is, or was, as a visitor) or
by virtue of having arrived in the UK
with an entry clearance that was
granted under Appendix EU (Family
Permit) to these Rules, which has, or
had, not lapsed or been cancelled,
curtailed or invalidated, and the date of
expiry of that leave (which they have
held, or did hold, continuously since
before that deadline) is, or was, after
that deadline, the Secretary of State will
deem that to be reasonable grounds for
the person’s failure to meet that
deadline), so that the date of
application is:

(aa) before the date of expiry of that
leave; or
(bb) (where the deadline in subparagraph (a)(viii)(aa) above was not
met and the Secretary of State is
satisfied by information provided with
the application that, at the date of
application, there are reasonable
grounds for the person’s delay in
making their application) after the date
of expiry of that leave; or
(ix) (in the case of an applicant to
whom the deadline in sub-paragraph
(a)(i)(aa), (a)(ii)(aa) or (a)(iii)(aa) above
applies, who ceases to be exempt from
immigration control in accordance with
section 8(2), (3) or (4) of the
Immigration Act 1971 on or after 1 July
2021, which the Secretary of State will
deem to be reasonable grounds for the
person’s failure to meet that deadline),
the date of application is:
(aa) within the period of 90 days
beginning on the day on which they
ceased to be exempt from immigration
control; or
(bb) (where the deadline in subparagraph (a)(ix)(aa) above was not
met and the Secretary of State is
satisfied by information provided with
the application that, at the date of
application, there are reasonable
grounds for the person’s delay in
making their application) after that
deadline; or
(b) where, at the date of application, the
applicant has limited leave to enter or
remain granted under this Appendix,
the date of application is any date
in addition:
(a) for the avoidance of doubt, the
Exceptions for overstayers section of
Part Suitability does not apply to
applications made under this Appendix;
and
(b) the deadline in sub-paragraph (a)(i)

(aa) above does not apply (and the
applicant therefore has to meet no
requirement under sub-paragraph (a)
above) where the applicant:
(i) is a joining family member of a
relevant sponsor; and
(ii) does not have indefinite leave to
enter or remain or limited leave to enter
or remain granted under this Appendix;
and
(iii) is not caught by the deadline in subparagraph (a)(ii)(aa) or (a)(iii)(aa)
above; and
(iv) does not fall within sub-paragraph
(a)(viii) or (a)(ix) above
required
evidence of
being a
relevant
person of
Northern
Ireland

(a) the person’s birth certificate
showing that they were born in
Northern Ireland, or their passport
where this shows that they were born in
Northern Ireland; and
(b) evidence which satisfies the
Secretary of State that, at the time of
the person’s birth, at least one of their
parents was:
(i) a British citizen; or
(ii) an Irish citizen; or
(iii) a British citizen and an Irish citizen;
or
(iv) otherwise entitled to reside in
Northern Ireland without any restriction
on their period of residence
in addition:
(a) where, in order to meet the
requirements of this entry, the applicant
submits a copy (and not the original) of
a document (including by uploading this
as part of the required application
process), the Secretary of State can
require the applicant to submit the
original document where the Secretary
of State has reasonable doubt as to the
authenticity of the copy submitted; and
(b) where, in order to meet the
requirements of this entry, the applicant
submits a document which is not in

English, the Secretary of State can
require the applicant to provide a
certified English translation of (or a
Multilingual Standard Form to
accompany) the document, where this
is necessary for the purposes of
deciding whether the applicant meets
the eligibility requirements for indefinite
leave to enter or remain or for limited
leave to enter or remain under this
Appendix
required
evidence of
family
relationship

in the case of:
(a) a spouse without a documented
right of permanent residence:
(i) a relevant document as the spouse
of the relevant EEA citizen (or, as the
case may be, of the qualifying British
citizen or of the relevant sponsor), or a
valid document of record of a marriage
recognised under the law of England
and Wales, Scotland or Northern
Ireland or of the Islands; and
(ii)(aa) where the marriage to the
relevant EEA citizen (or, as the case
may be, the relevant sponsor) was
contracted after the specified date and
the applicant is not the specified
spouse or civil partner of a Swiss
citizen, a relevant document as the
durable partner of the relevant EEA
citizen or, where the applicant is the
joining family member of a relevant
sponsor or relies on the relevant EEA
citizen being a relevant person of
Northern Ireland, there is evidence
which satisfies the Secretary of State
that the durable partnership was
formed and was durable before the
specified date; or
(bb) where the marriage to the
qualifying British citizen was contracted
after the date and time of withdrawal,
evidence which satisfies the Secretary
of State that the durable partnership
was formed and was durable before the
date and time of withdrawal; or

(b) a civil partner without a documented
right of permanent residence:
(i) a relevant document as the civil
partner of the relevant EEA citizen (or,
as the case may be, of the qualifying
British citizen or of the relevant
sponsor); a valid civil partnership
certificate recognised under the law of
England and Wales, Scotland or
Northern Ireland or under any
equivalent legislation in the Islands; or
the valid overseas registration
document for a relationship which is
entitled to be treated as a civil
partnership under the Civil Partnership
Act 2004 or under any equivalent
legislation in the Islands; and
(ii)(aa) where the civil partnership with
the relevant EEA citizen (or, as the
case may be, the relevant sponsor)
was formed after the specified date and
the applicant is not the specified
spouse or civil partner of a Swiss
citizen, a relevant document as the
durable partner of the relevant EEA
citizen or, where the applicant is a
joining family member of a relevant
sponsor or relies on the relevant EEA
citizen being a relevant person of
Northern Ireland, there is evidence
which satisfies the Secretary of State
that the durable partnership was
formed and was durable before the
specified date; or
(bb) where the civil partnership with the
qualifying British citizen was formed
after the date and time of withdrawal,
evidence which satisfies the Secretary
of State that the durable partnership
was formed and was durable before the
date and time of withdrawal; or
(c) a child without a documented right
of permanent residence – a relevant
document issued on the basis of the
relevant family relationship or their
evidence of birth, and:
(i) where the applicant is aged 21 years

or over and was not previously granted
limited leave to enter or remain under
this Appendix (or under its equivalent in
the Islands) as a child (and where subparagraph (a)(i) of the entry for ‘child’ in
this table does not apply), evidence
which satisfies the Secretary of State
that the requirements in sub-paragraph
(b)(ii) of the entry for ‘child’ in this table
are met; and
(ii) where, in the case of a joining family
member of a relevant sponsor, the
applicant is a child born after the
specified date or adopted after that
date in accordance with a relevant
adoption decision, or after the specified
date became a child within the meaning
of that entry in this table on the basis of
one of sub-paragraphs (a)(iii) to (a)(xi)
of that entry, evidence which satisfies
the Secretary of State that the
requirements in the second subparagraph (c) (as set out in subparagraph (i), (ii) or (iii) of that subparagraph) or in the second subparagraph (d) of the entry for ‘joining
family member of a relevant sponsor’ in
this table are met; or
(d) a dependent parent without a
documented right of permanent
residence – a relevant document
issued on the basis of the relevant
family relationship or their evidence of
birth, and, where the first subparagraph (b) of the entry for
‘dependent parent’ in this table applies,
evidence which satisfies the Secretary
of State that (where this is not
assumed) the requirement as to
dependency in that sub-paragraph is
met; or
(e) a durable partner:
(i) a relevant document as the durable
partner of the relevant EEA citizen (or,
as the case may be, of the qualifying
British citizen or of the relevant
sponsor) and, unless this confirms the

right of permanent residence in the UK
under regulation 15 of the EEA
Regulations (or the right of permanent
residence in the Islands through the
application there of section 7(1) of the
Immigration Act 1988 (as it had effect
before it was repealed) or under the
Immigration (European Economic Area)
Regulations of the Isle of Man),
evidence which satisfies the Secretary
of State that the partnership remains
durable at the date of application (or did
so for the period of residence relied
upon); or
(ii) (where the person is applying as the
durable partner of a relevant sponsor
(or, as the case may be, of a qualifying
British citizen) and sub-paragraph (b)(ii)
of the entry for ‘durable partner’ in this
table applies) the evidence to which
that sub-paragraph refers, and
evidence which satisfies the Secretary
of State that the partnership remains
durable at the date of application (or did
so for the period of residence relied
upon); or
(f) a dependent relative:
(i) (where sub-paragraph (f)(ii) below
does not apply) a relevant document as
the dependent relative of their
sponsoring person (in the entry for
‘dependent relative’ in this table) and,
unless this confirms the right of
permanent residence in the UK under
regulation 15 of the EEA Regulations
(or the right of permanent residence in
the Islands through the application
there of section 7(1) of the Immigration
Act 1988 (as it had effect before it was
repealed) or under the Immigration
(European Economic Area) Regulations
of the Isle of Man), evidence which
satisfies the Secretary of State that the
relationship and the dependency (or, as
the case may be, their membership of
the household or their strict need for
personal care on serious health

grounds) continue to exist at the date of
application (or did so for the period of
residence relied upon); or
(ii) (in the case of a family member of a
qualifying British citizen as described in
sub-paragraph (a)(viii) of that entry in
this table, where the Secretary of State
is satisfied that there are reasonable
grounds for the person’s failure to meet
the deadline to which that subparagraph refers) evidence which
satisfies the Secretary of State that the
relationship and the dependency (or, as
the case may be, their membership of
the household or their strict need for
personal care on serious health
grounds) existed before the specified
date and continue to exist at the date of
application (or did so for the period of
residence relied upon)
in addition:
(a) where the eligibility requirements to
be met for leave to be granted under
this Appendix relate to the death of a
person, the required evidence of family
relationship must include their death
certificate or other evidence which the
Secretary of State is satisfied
evidences the death; and
(b) where the applicant is a non-EEA
citizen without a documented right of
permanent residence, or is an EEA
citizen (in accordance with subparagraph (a) of that entry in this table)
without a documented right of
permanent residence who relies on
being (or, as the case may be, for the
relevant period on having been) a
family member of a qualifying British
citizen (or, as the case may be, a family
member of a relevant EEA citizen, a
family member who has retained the
right of residence or a joining family
member of a relevant sponsor), the
required evidence of family relationship
must include:

(i) the following proof of identity and
nationality of (as the case may be) the
relevant EEA citizen, the qualifying
British citizen or the relevant sponsor,
of whom the applicant is (or, as the
case may be, for the relevant period
was) a family member or (as the case
may be) a joining family member:
(aa) (in the case of a relevant EEA
citizen who is neither a relevant
naturalised British citizen nor a relevant
EEA citizen as described in subparagraph (d) of the applicable entry in
this table nor relied on by the applicant
as being a relevant person of Northern
Ireland, in the case of a qualifying
British citizen, or in the case of a
relevant sponsor who is neither a
relevant naturalised British citizen nor
relied on by the applicant as being a
relevant person of Northern Ireland)
their valid passport; or
(bb) (in the case of a relevant EEA
citizen who is neither a relevant
naturalised British citizen nor a relevant
EEA citizen as described in subparagraph (d) of the applicable entry in
this table nor relied on by the applicant
as being a relevant person of Northern
Ireland, or in the case of a relevant
sponsor who is neither a relevant
naturalised British citizen nor relied on
by the applicant as being a relevant
person of Northern Ireland) their valid
national identity card or confirmation
that they have been or are being
granted indefinite leave to enter or
remain under paragraph EU2 of this
Appendix or limited leave to enter or
remain under paragraph EU3; or
(cc) (in the case of a relevant EEA
citizen who is a relevant naturalised
British citizen or who is a relevant EEA
citizen as described in sub-paragraph
(d) of the applicable entry in this table,
or in the case of a relevant sponsor
who is a relevant naturalised British

citizen) their valid passport or their valid
national identity card as a national of a
country listed in sub-paragraph (a)(i) in
the entry for ‘EEA citizen’ in this table,
and information or evidence which is
provided by the applicant, or is
otherwise available to the Secretary of
State, which satisfies the Secretary of
State that the person is a British citizen;
or
(dd) (in the case of a relevant EEA
citizen or a relevant sponsor who, in
either case, is relied on by the applicant
as being a relevant person of Northern
Ireland) the required evidence of
being a relevant person of Northern
Ireland, and:
(aaa) (where they are a British citizen)
information or evidence which is
provided by the applicant, or is
otherwise available to the Secretary of
State, which satisfies the Secretary of
State that the person is a British citizen;
or
(bbb) (where they are an Irish citizen)
their valid passport or their valid
national identity card as an Irish citizen,
or confirmation that they have been or
are being granted indefinite leave to
enter or remain under paragraph EU2
of this Appendix or limited leave to
enter or remain under paragraph EU3;
or
(ccc) (where they are a British citizen
and an Irish citizen, and are not relied
on by the applicant as being a specified
relevant person of Northern Ireland) the
evidence required by sub-paragraph (b)
(i)(dd)(aaa) or (b)(i)(dd)(bbb) above,
unless (in any case) the Secretary of
State agrees to accept alternative
evidence of identity and nationality
where the applicant is unable to obtain
or produce the required document due
to circumstances beyond their control
or to compelling practical or

compassionate reasons; and
(ii) evidence which satisfies the
Secretary of State that:
(aa) where the applicant is (or, as the
case may be, for the relevant period
was) a family member of a relevant
EEA citizen, that EEA citizen is (or, as
the case may be, for the relevant period
was) a relevant EEA citizen as
described in the applicable entry for
‘relevant EEA citizen’ in this table, and
is (or, as the case may be, was) such a
relevant EEA citizen throughout any
continuous qualifying period on which
the applicant relies as being a family
member of a relevant EEA citizen; or
(bb) where the applicant is (or, as the
case may be, for the relevant period
was) a family member of a qualifying
British citizen, that British citizen is (or,
as the case may be, for the relevant
period was) a qualifying British citizen,
and is (or, as the case may be, was) a
qualifying British citizen throughout any
continuous qualifying period on which
the applicant relies as being a family
member of a qualifying British citizen;
or
(cc) where the applicant is (or, as the
case may be, for the relevant period
was) a joining family member of a
relevant sponsor, that relevant sponsor
is (or, as the case may be, for the
relevant period was) a relevant
sponsor, and is (or, as the case may
be, was) a relevant sponsor throughout
any continuous qualifying period on
which the applicant relies as being a
joining family member of a relevant
sponsor; and
(c) ‘valid’ here means, in respect of a
document, that it is genuine and has
not expired or been cancelled or
invalidated; and
(d) where, in order to meet the
requirements of this entry, the applicant
submits a copy (and not the original) of

a document (including by uploading this
as part of the required application
process), the Secretary of State can
require the applicant to submit the
original document where the Secretary
of State has reasonable doubt as to the
authenticity of the copy submitted; and
(e) where, in order to meet the
requirements of this entry, the applicant
submits a document which is not in
English, the Secretary of State can
require the applicant to provide a
certified English translation of (or a
Multilingual Standard Form to
accompany) the document, where this
is necessary for the purposes of
deciding whether the applicant meets
the eligibility requirements for indefinite
leave to enter or remain or for limited
leave to enter or remain under this
Appendix
required proof
of entitlement
to apply from
outside the
UK

(a) in the case of an EEA citizen (in
accordance with sub-paragraph (a) of
that entry in this table):
(i) their valid passport; or
(ii) their valid national identity card,
where this contains an interoperable
biometric chip,
unless the Secretary of State agrees to
accept alternative evidence of
entitlement to apply from outside the
UK where the applicant is unable to
obtain or produce the required
document due to circumstances
beyond their control or to compelling
practical or compassionate reasons; or
(b) in the case of a non-EEA citizen,
their valid specified relevant document,
unless the Secretary of State agrees to
accept alternative evidence of
entitlement to apply from outside the
UK where the applicant is unable to
produce the required document due to
circumstances beyond their control or

to compelling practical or
compassionate reasons
in addition, ‘valid’ here means that the
document is genuine and has not
expired (in the case of (a)(i) or (a)(ii)) or
been cancelled or invalidated
required proof
of identity and
nationality

(a) in the case of an EEA citizen (in
accordance with sub-paragraph (a) of
that entry in this table) making an
application within the UK:
(i) their valid passport; or
(ii) their valid national identity card; or
(b) in the case of a non-EEA citizen
making an application within the UK:
(i) their valid passport; or
(ii) their valid specified relevant
document; or
(iii) their valid biometric immigration
document (as defined in section 5 of
the UK Borders Act 2007), which has
not expired by more than 18 months at
the date of application,
unless (in the case of (a) or (b)) the
Secretary of State agrees to accept
alternative evidence of identity and
nationality where the applicant is
unable to obtain or produce the
required document due to
circumstances beyond their control or
to compelling practical or
compassionate reasons
in addition, ‘valid’ here means that the
document is genuine and has not
expired (in the case of (a)(i), (a)(ii) or
(b)(i)) or been cancelled or invalidated

self-employed
person

there is evidence which satisfies the
Secretary of State that the person is, or
(as the case may be) for the relevant
period was, either:
(a) a self-employed person as defined
in regulation 4(1) of the EEA
Regulations; or

(b) (save where sub-paragraph (b)(iv)
of the entry for ‘person with a derivative
right to reside’ in this table is
concerned) a person who is or was no
longer in self-employment but who
continues or continued to be treated as
a self-employed person within the
meaning of “qualified person” under
regulation 6 of the EEA Regulations,
irrespective, in either case, of whether
the EEA Regulations apply, or (as the
case may be) for the relevant period
applied, to that person where the
person is, or (as the case may be) was,
a relevant person of Northern Ireland
specified date

(a) (where sub-paragraphs (b) and (c)
below do not apply) 2300 GMT on 31
December 2020; or
(b)(i) (in the case of a family member of
a qualifying British citizen as described
in sub-paragraph (a)(i), (a)(iii), (a)(v) or
(a)(vi) of the entry for ‘family member of
a qualifying British citizen’ in this table)
2300 GMT on 29 March 2022; or
(ii) (where, in the case of a family
member of a qualifying British citizen,
the Secretary of State is satisfied that
there are reasonable grounds for the
person’s failure to meet the deadline for
returning to the UK applicable under
the entry for ‘family member of a
qualifying British citizen’ in this table)
2359 GMT on the date they arrived in
the UK,
in (in the case of (b)(i) or (b)(ii)) the
reference to specified date in subparagraph (a) of the entry for
‘continuous qualifying period’ in this
table, for the purposes of the
references to continuous qualifying
period in:
- condition 3 in the table in paragraph
EU12 of this Appendix;
- condition 2 in the table in paragraph
EU14 of this Appendix;

- sub-paragraphs (a) and (d) of the
entry for ‘family member who has
retained the right of residence’ in this
table; and
- sub-paragraph (a) of the entry for
‘supervening event’ in this table; or
(c) (in the case of a relevant EEA family
permit case) 2359 GMT on the date
they arrived in the UK, in the reference
to specified date in:
(i) sub-paragraph (a) of the entry for
‘continuous qualifying period’ in this
table, for the purposes of the
references to continuous qualifying
period in:
- condition 3 in the table in paragraph
EU11 of this Appendix;
- condition 1 in the table in paragraph
EU14 of this Appendix;
- sub-paragraphs (a) and (d) of the
entry for ‘family member who has
retained the right of residence’ in this
table;
- the entry for ‘person with a derivative
right to reside’ in this table;
- the entry for ‘person with a Zambrano
right to reside’ in this table; and
- sub-paragraph (a) of the entry for
‘supervening event’ in this table; and
(ii) the entries for ‘person who had a
derivative or Zambrano right to reside’,
‘person with a derivative right to reside’
and ‘person with a Zambrano right to
reside’ in this table
specified
enforcement
case

a person who is:
(a) an “illegal entrant” within the
meaning given in section 33(1) of the
Immigration Act 1971 (save that, in
respect of the reference there to
“deportation order”, the definition of
‘deportation order’ in this table does not
apply); or
(b) an irregular arrival

specified
relevant

(a) within the meaning of subparagraph (a)(i)(aa) of the entry for

document

‘relevant document’ in this table, a
residence card, permanent residence
card or derivative residence card which:
(i) was issued by the UK under the EEA
Regulations on the basis of an
application made on or after 6 April
2015; and
(ii) has not expired by more than 60
months at the date of application; or
(b) a biometric residence card as
described in sub-paragraph (a)(iii) of
the entry for ‘relevant document’ in this
table, which has not expired by more
than 60 months at the date of
application

specified
relevant
person of
Northern
Ireland

(a) the person is a relevant person of
Northern Ireland in accordance with
sub-paragraph (a)(i) or (a)(iii) of that
entry in this table; and
(b) the applicant is a non-EEA citizen;
and
(c)(i)(aa) the applicant is a joining
family member of a relevant sponsor
where the person is their relevant
sponsor; and
(bb) the applicant has satisfied the
Secretary of State by relevant
information or evidence provided with
the application that, due to compelling
practical or compassionate reasons, it
was not possible for the person to
return to the UK before the specified
date while the applicant remained
outside the UK; or
(ii)(aa) the applicant is a dependent
relative and the person is their
sponsoring person (in the entry for
‘dependent relative’ in this table); and
(bb) the applicant relies, as their
relevant document as the dependent
relative of their sponsoring person (as
described in sub-paragraph (a)(iv) of
the entry for ‘relevant document’ in this
table), on an EU Settlement Scheme
Family Permit granted to them under
Appendix EU (Family Permit) to these

Rules as a ‘dependent relative of a
specified relevant person of Northern
Ireland’, as defined in Annex 1 to that
Appendix
specified
spouse or
civil partner of
a Swiss
citizen

(a) the person is the spouse or civil
partner of a relevant sponsor; and
(b) the relevant sponsor is a national of
Switzerland and is not also a British
citizen; and
(c) the marriage was contracted or the
civil partnership was formed after the
specified date and before 1 January
2026; and
(d)(i) (unless the applicant relies on
meeting condition 1 or condition 3 of
paragraph EU11A of this Appendix, or
on being a family member who has
retained the right of residence by virtue
of a relationship with a relevant
sponsor) the marriage or civil
partnership continues to exist at the
date of application; or
(ii) (where the applicant relies on
meeting condition 1 of paragraph
EU11A of this Appendix) the marriage
or civil partnership existed for the
relevant period; or
(iii) (where the applicant relies on
meeting condition 3 of paragraph
EU11A of this Appendix) the marriage
or civil partnership existed immediately
before the death of the relevant
sponsor

spouse

(a) the person is, or (as the case may
be) for the relevant period was, party to
a marriage with a relevant EEA citizen
(or, as the case may be, with a
qualifying British citizen or with a
relevant sponsor) and the marriage is
recognised under the law of England
and Wales, Scotland or Northern
Ireland or of the Islands; and
(b) it is, or (as the case may be) for the
relevant period was, not a marriage of
convenience; and

(c) neither party has, or (as the case
may be) for the relevant period had,
another spouse, a civil partner or a
durable partner with (in any of those
circumstances) immigration status in
the UK or the Islands based on that
person’s relationship with that party
supervening
event

at the date of application:
(a) the person has been absent from
the UK and Islands for a period of more
than five consecutive years (at any
point since they last acquired the right
of permanent residence in the UK
under regulation 15 of the EEA
Regulations, or the right of permanent
residence in the Islands through the
application there of section 7(1) of the
Immigration Act 1988 (as it had effect
before it was repealed) or under the
Immigration (European Economic Area)
Regulations of the Isle of Man, or since
they last completed a continuous
qualifying period of five years); or
(b) any of the following events has
occurred in respect of the person,
unless it has been set aside or revoked:
(i) any decision or order to exclude or
remove under regulation 23 or 32 of the
EEA Regulations (or under the
equivalent provisions of the Immigration
(European Economic Area) Regulations
of the Isle of Man); or
(ii) a decision to which regulation 15(4)
of the EEA Regulations otherwise
refers, unless that decision arose from
a previous decision under regulation
24(1) of the EEA Regulations (or the
equivalent decision, subject to the
equivalent qualification, under the
Immigration (European Economic Area)
Regulations of the Isle of Man); or
(iii) an exclusion decision; or
(iv) a deportation order, other than by
virtue of the EEA Regulations; or
(v) an Islands deportation order; or
(vi) an Islands exclusion decision

termination of
the marriage
or civil
partnership

the date on which the order finally
terminating the marriage or civil
partnership is made by a court

the Islands

the Bailiwick of Guernsey, the Bailiwick
of Jersey or the Isle of Man

the UK and
Islands

the United Kingdom and the Islands
taken together

valid
evidence of
their indefinite
leave to enter
or remain

(a) a valid biometric immigration
document (as defined in section 5 of
the UK Borders Act 2007), a valid
stamp or endorsement in a passport
(whether or not the passport has
expired) or other valid document issued
by the Home Office, confirming that, at
2300 GMT on 31 December 2020, the
applicant had indefinite leave to enter
or remain in the UK, which has not
since lapsed or been revoked or
invalidated; or
(b) the Secretary of State is otherwise
satisfied from the evidence or
information available to them that, at
2300 GMT on 31 December 2020, the
applicant had indefinite leave to enter
or remain in the UK or the Islands,
which has not since lapsed or been
revoked or invalidated

visitor

means a person granted permission
under paragraphs 40- 56Z, 75A-M or
82-87 of the rules in force before 24
April 2015 or Appendix V on or after 24
April 2015 or Appendix V: Visitor after
9am on 1 December 2020, or a person
to whom article 4 or 6 of the
Immigration (Control of Entry through
Republic of Ireland) Order 1972
applies, unless (in either case):
(a) they are the spouse or civil partner
of a relevant sponsor (as described in
sub-paragraph (a)(i)(bb) of the entry for
‘joining family member of a relevant
sponsor’ in this table) or the specified

spouse or civil partner of a Swiss
citizen; and
(b) their leave permitted them to marry
or form a civil partnership in the UK
with that relevant sponsor or with that
Swiss citizen and they did so
worker

there is evidence which satisfies the
Secretary of State that the person is, or
(as the case may be) for the relevant
period was, either:
(a) a worker as defined in regulation
4(1) of the EEA Regulations; or
(b) (save where sub-paragraph (b)(iv)
of the entry for ‘person with a derivative
right to reside’ in this table is
concerned) a person who is or was no
longer working but who continues or
continued to be treated as a worker
within the meaning of “qualified person”
under regulation 6 of the EEA
Regulations,
irrespective, in either case, of whether
the EEA Regulations apply, or (as the
case may be) for the relevant period
applied, to that person where the
person is, or (as the case may be) was,
a relevant person of Northern Ireland

Annex 2 – Consideration of a valid
application and of whether eligibility
requirements are or continue to be met
A2.1. A valid application made under this Appendix, and
any issue as to whether a person granted limited leave
to enter or remain under this Appendix continues to
meet the eligibility requirements for that leave which
they met at the date of application (or meets other
eligibility requirements for limited leave to enter or
remain, or the eligibility requirements for indefinite leave
to enter or remain, under this Appendix), will be decided
on the basis of:
(a) the information and evidence provided by the

person, including in response to any request for
further information or evidence made by the
Secretary of State; and
(b) any other information or evidence made
available to the Secretary of State (including from
other government departments) at the date of
decision.
A2.2.(1) For the purposes of deciding whether the
person meets the eligibility requirements for indefinite
leave to enter or remain or for limited leave to enter or
remain, the Secretary of State may:
(a) request that they provide further information or
evidence that they meet those requirements; or
(b) invite them to be interviewed by the Secretary of
State in person, by telephone, by videotelecommunications link or over the internet.
(2) If the person purports to meet the eligibility
requirements for indefinite leave to enter or remain or
for limited leave to enter or remain on the basis of a
relationship with another person (“P”), including where P
is a qualifying British citizen or a relevant sponsor, the
Secretary of State may:
(a) request that P provide information or evidence
about their relationship with the person, their
residence in the UK or, where P is a qualifying
British citizen, their residence in a country listed in
sub-paragraph (a)(i) of the entry for ‘EEA citizen’ in
the table at Annex 1 to this Appendix; or
(b) invite P to be interviewed by the Secretary of
State in person, by telephone, by videotelecommunications link or over the internet.
(3) If the person or (as the case may be) P:
(a) fails within a reasonable timeframe specified in
the request to provide the information or evidence
requested; or
(b) on at least two occasions, fails to comply with an
invitation to attend an interview in person or with
other arrangements to be interviewed,
the Secretary of State may draw any factual inferences
about whether the person meets the eligibility
requirements for indefinite leave to enter or remain or

for limited leave to enter or remain as appear
appropriate in the circumstances.
(4) The Secretary of State may decide, following the
drawing of a factual inference under sub-paragraph (3),
that the person does not meet the eligibility
requirements for indefinite leave to enter or remain or
for limited leave to enter or remain.
(5) The Secretary of State must not decide that the
person does not meet the eligibility requirements for
indefinite leave to enter or remain or for limited leave to
enter or remain on the sole basis that the person or (as
the case may be) P failed on at least two occasions to
comply with an invitation to be interviewed.

Annex 3 - Cancellation, curtailment and
revocation of leave to enter or remain
A3.1. A person’s indefinite leave to enter or remain or
limited leave to enter or remain granted under this
Appendix must be cancelled on or before their arrival in
the UK where the Secretary of State or an Immigration
Officer deems the person’s presence in the UK is not
conducive to the public good because of conduct
committed after the specified date.
A3.1A. A person’s indefinite leave to enter or remain or
limited leave to enter or remain granted under this
Appendix must be cancelled where:
(a) The person is an excluded person, as defined by
section 8B(4) of the Immigration Act 1971, because
of their conduct committed before the specified date,
and the person does not fall within section 8B(5A) or
8B(5B) of that Act; and
(b) The Secretary of State or an Immigration Officer
is satisfied that, because of the person’s conduct
committed before the specified date, the
cancellation is justified on grounds of public policy,
public security or public health in accordance with
regulation 27 of the Immigration (European
Economic Area) Regulations 2016, irrespective of
whether the EEA Regulations apply to that person
(except that in regulation 27 for “a right of
permanent residence under regulation 15” read
“indefinite leave to enter or remain under, or who
would be granted indefinite leave to enter or remain

if they made a valid application under, Appendix EU
to the Immigration Rules”; and for “an EEA decision”
read “a decision under paragraph A3.1A. of Annex 3
to Appendix EU to the Immigration Rules”).
A3.1B. A person’s indefinite leave to enter or remain or
limited leave to enter or remain granted under this
Appendix must be cancelled where the person is an
excluded person, as defined by section 8B(4) of the
Immigration Act 1971, because of conduct committed
after the specified date, and the person does not fall
within section 8B(5A) or 8B(5B) of that Act.
A3.2. A person’s indefinite leave to enter or remain or
limited leave to enter or remain granted under this
Appendix may be cancelled on or before their arrival in
the UK where the Secretary of State or an Immigration
Officer is satisfied that it is proportionate to cancel that
leave where:
(a) Because of the person’s conduct committed
before the specified date, the cancellation is justified
on grounds of public policy, public security or public
health in accordance with regulation 27 of the
Immigration (European Economic Area) Regulations
2016, irrespective of whether the EEA Regulations
apply to that person (except that in regulation 27 for
“a right of permanent residence under regulation 15”
read “indefinite leave to enter or remain under, or
who would be granted indefinite leave to enter or
remain if they made a valid application under,
Appendix EU to the Immigration Rules”; and for “an
EEA decision” read “a decision under paragraph
A3.2.(a) of Annex 3 to Appendix EU to the
Immigration Rules”); or
(b) The cancellation is justified on grounds that, in
relation to the relevant application under this
Appendix, and whether or not to the applicant’s
knowledge, false or misleading information,
representations or documents were submitted
(including false or misleading information submitted
to any person to obtain a document used in support
of the application); and the information,
representation or documentation was material to the
decision to grant the applicant leave to enter or
remain under this Appendix.
A3.3. A person’s limited leave to enter or remain
granted under this Appendix may be cancelled on or

before their arrival in the UK where the Secretary of
State or an Immigration Officer is satisfied that it is
proportionate to cancel that leave where:
(a) The person ceases to meet, or never met, the
requirements of this Appendix; or
(b) Cancellation is justified on grounds that it is more
likely than not that, after the specified date, the
person has assisted another person fraudulently to
obtain, or to attempt to obtain, entry clearance to, or
leave to enter or remain in, the UK.
A3.4. A person’s limited leave to enter or remain
granted under this Appendix may be curtailed where the
Secretary of State is satisfied that it is proportionate to
curtail that leave where:
(a) Curtailment is justified on grounds that, in
relation to the relevant application under this
Appendix, and whether or not to the applicant’s
knowledge, false or misleading information,
representations or documents were submitted
(including false or misleading information submitted
to any person to obtain a document used in support
of the application); and the information,
representation or documentation was material to the
decision to grant the applicant leave to enter or
remain under this Appendix; or
(b) Curtailment is justified on grounds that it is more
likely than not that, after the specified date, the
person has entered, attempted to enter or assisted
another person to enter or to attempt to enter, a
marriage, civil partnership or durable partnership of
convenience; or
(c) The person ceases to meet, or never met, the
requirements of this Appendix; or
(d) Curtailment is justified on grounds that it is more
likely than not that, after the specified date, the
person has assisted another person fraudulently to
obtain, or to attempt to obtain, entry clearance to, or
leave to enter or remain in, the UK.
A3.5 A person’s indefinite leave to enter or remain
granted under this Appendix may be revoked where the
Secretary of State is satisfied that it is proportionate to
revoke that leave where:
(a) The person is liable to deportation, but cannot be

deported for legal reasons; or
(b) The indefinite leave to enter or remain was
obtained by deception.

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

© Crown copyright

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Family Reunion (Sponsors with Protection) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:59 am

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix Family Reunion
(Sponsors with Protection)
Appendix Family Reunion (Sponsors with
Protection)
This Appendix, also known as refugee family reunion, is
now closed to new applications pending a review. For
those who applied under Appendix Family Reunion
(Sponsors with Protection) as a partner or child of a
person with protection status before 1500 on 4
September 2025, the Appendix FRP rules in place on
that date will apply to a pre-flight partner or dependent
child applying to stay with or join a person who has
protection status or settlement on a protection route in
the UK.
There is a separate route under Appendix Child Relative
(Sponsors with Protection) for a child to stay with or join
a close relative, for example a sibling, who has
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-family-reunion-sponsors-with-protection

Page 1 of 4

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Family Reunion (Sponsors with Protection) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:59 am

protection status in the UK.
There is a separate route under Appendix FM: family
members for a partner or child to join a sponsor who
has protection status, is settled or a British Citizen in the
UK on the basis of their family life.

Validity requirements for Family
Reunion
FRP 1.1. DELETED.
FRP 1.2. DELETED.
FRP 1.3. DELETED.
FRP 1.4. DELETED.

Suitability requirements for Family
Reunion
FRP 2.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
FRP 2.2. DELETED.

Eligibility requirements for Family
Reunion
Identity requirement for Family Reunion
FRP 3.1 DELETED.

Relationship requirements for a partner
applying for Family Reunion
FRP 4.1. DELETED.
FRP 4.2. DELETED.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-family-reunion-sponsors-with-protection

Page 2 of 4

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Family Reunion (Sponsors with Protection) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:59 am

Relationship requirement for a child
applying for Family Reunion
FRP 5.1 DELETED.

Family life requirements for a child
applying for Family Reunion
FRP 6.1. DELETED.
FRP 6.2. DELETED.

Eligibility under Article 8 of the Human
Rights Convention
FRP 7.1. DELETED.
FRP 7.2. DELETED.

Decision on an application for Family
Reunion
FRP 8.1. DELETED.

Period of grant for Family Reunion
FRP 9.1. DELETED.
FRP 9.2. DELETED.
FRP 9.3. DELETED.

Conditions of grant for Family Reunion
FRP 10.1. DELETED.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-family-reunion-sponsors-with-protection

Page 3 of 4

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Family Reunion (Sponsors with Protection) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:59 am

Transitional provisions
FRP 11.1. Applications made before 1500 on 4
September 2025 by a partner or child of a person with
protection status will be decided under the Appendix
Family Reunion (Sponsors with Protection) rules in force
on that date. In any other case, the partner or child of a
person with protection status must apply under
Appendix FM to stay with or join that person until further
notice.

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-family-reunion-sponsors-with-protection

© Crown copyright

Page 4 of 4

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Finance - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:07 pm

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix Finance
This Appendix sets out how the financial
requirement must be met.
This Appendix sets out how the financial requirement
must be met.
The routes set out the requirements for the amount of
funds and length of time they must be held.
This Appendix applies to applications under these
routes:
• Appendix Child Student
• Appendix Domestic Worker in a Private Household
• Appendix Global Business Mobility – Senior or
Specialist
• Appendix Global Business Mobility – Graduate
Trainee
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-finance

Page 1 of 8

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Finance - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:07 pm

• Appendix Global Business Mobility – UK
Expansion Worker
• Appendix Global Business Mobility – Service
Supplier
• Appendix Global Business Mobility – Secondment
Worker
• Appendix Global Talent
• Appendix High Potential Individual
• Appendix Hong Kong British National (Overseas)
• Appendix Innovator Founder
• Appendix International Sportsperson
• Appendix Parent of a Child Student
• Appendix Representative of an Overseas Business
• Appendix Scale-up
• Appendix Short-term Student
• Appendix Skilled Worker
• Appendix Start-up
• Appendix Student
• Appendix Temporary Work - Charity Worker
• Appendix Temporary Work - Creative Worker
• Appendix Temporary Work - International
Agreement
• Appendix Temporary Work - Government
Authorised Exchange
• Appendix Temporary Work - Religious Worker
• Appendix Temporary Work - Seasonal Worker
• Appendix T2 Minister of Religion
• Appendix UK Ancestry
• Appendix Visitor
• Appendix Youth Mobility Scheme

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-finance

Page 2 of 8

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Finance - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:07 pm

Currency
FIN 1.1. Where money is held in one or more foreign
currencies, this will be converted into pound sterling (£)
using the spot exchange rate which appears on
www.oanda.com for the date of the application unless
FIN 1.2. or FIN 1.3. applies.
FIN 1.2. Where money is held in one or more foreign
currencies and the exchange rate for a foreign currency
does not appear on www.oanda.com, this will be
converted into pound sterling (£), using the monthly
FCDO Consular Exchange Rate (“CER”) rate published
at www.gov.uk/government/publications/fco-consularservices-abroad-exchange-rates
(http://www.gov.uk/government/publications/fco-consularservices-abroad-exchange-rates) on the date of application.

The following currencies do not appear on
www.oanda.com (http://www.oanda.com):
• Syrian Pounds
• Mongolian Tugrik
FIN 1.3. The following currencies will also be converted
into pound sterling (£) using the monthly FCDO CER
rate published at
www.gov.uk/government/publications/fco-consularservices-abroad-exchange-rates
(http://www.gov.uk/government/publications/fco-consularservices-abroad-exchange-rates) applicable on the date of

application:
• Iranian Rials.

Financial institutions
FIN 2.1. Funds will not be considered if they are held in
a financial institution where any of the following apply:
(a) the decision maker is unable to make satisfactory
verification checks; or
(b) the financial institution is not regulated by the
appropriate regulatory body for the country in which
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-finance

Page 3 of 8

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Finance - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:07 pm

that institution is operating; or
(c) the financial institution does not use electronic
record keeping.

Overdrafts
FIN 3.1. Overdraft facilities will not be counted towards
meeting financial requirements.

Requirement to have legally earned or
acquired funds, savings, or income
FIN 4.1. If funds, savings or income were earned or
acquired when the applicant was in the UK, they must
have been earned or acquired lawfully and while the
applicant had permission and was not in breach of any
conditions attached to that permission.

Account holders
FIN 5.1. Accounts relied on must be in the name of the
applicant (either alone or as a joint account holder),
unless one of the following applies:
(a) the account is in the name of the applicant’s
partner who is applying for entry clearance or
permission to stay at the same time or has been
granted permission; or
(b) the applicant is applying as a Child Student,
Student, Short-Term Student (English language), or
dependent child, and the account is in the name of
their parent, or their legal guardian; or
(c) the applicant is applying as a Child Student and
they are being cared for by a close relative, or a
private foster care arrangement has been made
which complies with the requirements in CS 9.3. to
CS 9.5, and the account is in the name of the
applicant’s close relative or private foster carer; or
(d) the requirements for the route under which the
applicant is applying state that an account in the
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-finance

Page 4 of 8

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Finance - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:07 pm

name of a third party may be relied upon and the
account is in the name of that third party.
FIN 5.2. The applicant, or account holder in FIN.5.1,
must have control of the funds.
FIN 5.3. If the applicant is applying as a Student, ShortTerm Student (English language), or Child Student and
they are relying on funds held in an account in the name
of a parent or legal guardian as specified in FIN 5.1.
they must provide proof of that relationship and written
consent from the parent or legal guardian to use those
funds.

Third party support
FIN 6.1. Promises of future third-party support will not
be accepted as evidence of funds, except where this is
specified in the route under which the applicant is
applying.

Dates of financial evidence
FIN 7.1. The most recently dated piece of financial
evidence must be dated within 31 days before the date
of application.
FIN 7.2. The length of time for which funds are held will
be calculated by counting back from the date of the
closing balance on the most recently dated piece of
financial evidence.
FIN 7.3. The financial evidence provided must cover the
whole period of time for which the funds must be held.

Accounts
FIN 8.1. Funds may be held in any form of personal
bank or building society account (including current,
deposit, savings, pension from which the funds can be
withdrawn or investment account) provided the account
allows the funds to be accessed immediately.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-finance

Page 5 of 8

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Finance - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:07 pm

FIN 8.2. Funds held in other accounts or financial
instruments such as shares, bonds, credit cards,
pensions from which the funds cannot be withdrawn
immediately, regardless of notice period, will not be
accepted as evidence of funds.
FIN 8.3. An applicant applying as a Student or Child
Student, will meet the financial requirements if they
provide evidence of any of the following (or a
combination of them):
(a) money held in an account that meets the
requirements set out in FIN 5.1. and FIN 8.1; or
(b) funds provided by an official financial sponsor,
which must be His Majesty’s Government, the
applicant’s national government, the British Council
or any international organisation, international
company, university or Independent School; or
(c) a student loan provided by:
(i) a government; or
(ii) a government sponsored student loan
company; or
(iii) an academic or educational loans scheme
which is provided by a financial institution
regulated for the purpose of issuing student
loans by either the Financial Conduct Authority
(FCA) or the Prudential Regulation Authority
(PRA) or, in the case of an overseas loan, the
official regulatory body for purpose of issuing
student loans in the country the institution is in
and where the money is held.
FIN 8.4. An applicant applying as a Short-Term Student
will meet financial requirements if they provide evidence
of any of the following (or a combination of them):
(a) money held in an account that meets the
requirements set out in FIN 5.1. and FIN 8.1; or
(b) sufficient funds from an official financial sponsor,
which must be His Majesty’s Government, the
applicant’s national government, the British Council
or any international organisation, international
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-finance

Page 6 of 8

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Finance - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:07 pm

company, university or Independent School.

Evidence of financial sponsorship or
student loans for students
FIN 9.1. An applicant relying on funds provided by an
official financial sponsor under FIN 8.3.(b) must provide
evidence, either:
(a) where the student sponsor is providing financial
sponsorship, the funds being provided must be
stated in the Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies;
or
(b) a letter of confirmation from the official financial
sponsor.
FIN 9.2. An applicant relying on a student loan under
FIN 8.3.(c), must show evidence of the student loan by
providing a student loan letter from the lender which
must:
(a) be dated no more than 6 months before the date
of application; and
(b) confirm the loan is a student loan provided to the
applicant by either the relevant government or a
government sponsored student loan company or an
academic or educational loans scheme; and
(c) confirm there are no conditions on release of the
loan funds other than a successful application to
study in the UK as a Student or Child Student; and
(d) confirm the amount of the loan; and
(e) confirm the loan is to the applicant; and
(f) confirm the funds will be:
(i) available to the applicant before they travel to
the UK; or
(ii) paid directly to the student sponsor before the
applicant travels to the UK, with any living cost
portion of the loan being made available to the
applicant by the time they arrive in the UK; or
(iii) available before the applicant begins their
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-finance

Page 7 of 8

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Finance - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:07 pm

course if the loan is provided by the applicant’s
national government; and
(g) confirm the lender meets the requirement at FIN
8.3(c).

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-finance

© Crown copyright

Page 8 of 8

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix FM:
family members
Family members

General
Section GEN: General
Purpose
GEN.1.1. This route is for those seeking to enter or
remain in the UK on the basis of their family life with a
person who is a British Citizen, is settled in the UK, is in
the UK with protection status, is in the UK with
permission as a Stateless person (and the applicant
cannot seek entry clearance or permission as their
family member under Appendix Statelessness of these
rules), is in the UK with limited leave under Appendix
EU, or is in the UK with limited leave as a worker or
business person by virtue of either Appendix ECAA
Extension of Stay or under the provisions of the relevant

1973 Immigration Rules (or Decision 1/80) that
underpinned the European Community Association
Agreement (ECAA) with Turkey prior to 1 January 2021.
It sets out the requirements to be met and, in
considering applications under this route, it reflects how,
under Article 8 of the Human Rights Convention, the
balance will be struck between the right to respect for
private and family life and the legitimate aims of
protecting national security, public safety and the
economic well-being of the UK; the prevention of
disorder and crime; the protection of health or morals;
and the protection of the rights and freedoms of others
(and in doing so also reflects the relevant public interest
considerations as set out in Part 5A of the Nationality,
Immigration and Asylum Act 2002). It also takes into
account the need to safeguard and promote the welfare
of children in the UK, in line with the Secretary of State’s
duty under section 55 of the Borders, Citizenship and
Immigration Act 2009.
Definitions
GEN.1.2. For the purposes of this Appendix “partner”
means the applicant’s(i) spouse; or
(ii) civil partner; or
(iii) fiancé(e) or proposed civil partner; or
(iv) unmarried partner, where the couple have been
in a relationship similar to marriage or civil
partnership for at least 2 years before the date of
application.
GEN.1.3. For the purposes of this Appendix
(a) “application for leave to remain” also includes an
application for variation of leave to enter or remain by a
person in the UK;
(b) references to a person being present and settled in
the UK also include a person who is being admitted for
settlement on the same occasion as the applicant;
(c) references to a British Citizen in the UK also include
a British Citizen who is coming to the UK with the
applicant as their partner or parent;

(d) references to a person being “in the UK with limited
leave under Appendix EU” mean an EEA national in the
UK who holds valid limited leave to enter or remain
granted under paragraph EU3 of Appendix EU to these
Rules on the basis of meeting condition 1(a)(i) in
paragraph EU14 of that Appendix; and
(e) references to a person being “in the UK with limited
leave as a worker or business person under Appendix
ECAA Extension of Stay” mean a person granted such
leave by virtue of either Appendix ECAA Extension of
Stay or under the provisions of the relevant 1973
Immigration Rules (or Decision 1/80) that underpinned
the European Community Association Agreement
(ECAA) with Turkey prior to 1 January 2021.
GEN.1.4. In this Appendix “specified” means specified
in Appendix FM-SE, unless otherwise stated.
GEN.1.5. If the Entry Clearance Officer, or Secretary of
State, has reasonable cause to doubt the genuineness
of any document submitted in support of an application,
and having taken reasonable steps to verify the
document, is unable to verify that it is genuine, the
document will be discounted for the purposes of the
application.
GEN.1.6. For the purposes of paragraph E-ECP.4.1.(a);
E-LTRP.4.1.(a); E-LTRP.4.1A.(a); E-ECPT. 4.1(a); ELTRPT.5.1.(a); and E-LTRPT.5.1A.(a) the applicant must
be a national of Antigua and Barbuda; Australia; the
Bahamas; Barbados; Belize; the British Overseas
Territories; Canada; Dominica; Grenada; Guyana;
Jamaica; Malta; New Zealand; St Kitts and Nevis; St
Lucia; St Vincent and the Grenadines; Trinidad and
Tobago; or the United States of America.
GEN.1.7. In this Appendix references to paragraphs are
to paragraphs of this Appendix unless the context
otherwise requires.
GEN.1.8. Paragraphs 277-280, 289AA, 295AA and 296
of Part 8 of these Rules shall apply to this Appendix.
GEN.1.9. In this Appendix:
(a) the requirement to make a valid application will not
apply when the Article 8 claim is raised:

(i) as part of an asylum claim, or as part of a further
submission in person after an asylum claim has
been refused;
(ii) where a migrant is in immigration detention. A
migrant in immigration detention or their
representative must submit any application or claim
raising Article 8 to a prison officer, a prisoner
custody officer, a detainee custody officer or a
member of Home Office staff at the migrant’s place
of detention; or
(iii) in an appeal (subject to the consent of the
Secretary of State where applicable); and
(b) where an application or claim raising Article 8 is
made in any of the circumstances specified in
paragraph GEN.1.9.(a), or is considered by the
Secretary of State under paragraph A277C of these
rules, the requirements of paragraphs R-LTRP.1.1.(c)
and R-LTRPT.1.1.(c) are not met.
GEN.1.10. Where paragraph GEN.3.1.(2) or GEN.3.2.
(3) applies, and the applicant is granted entry clearance
or leave to enter or remain under, as appropriate,
paragraph D-ECP.1.2., D-LTRP.1.2., D-ECC.1.1., DLTRC.1.1., D-ECPT.1.2. or D-LTRPT.1.2., that grant of
entry clearance or leave to enter or remain will be
subject to a condition of no recourse to public funds
unless the decision-maker considers, with reference to
paragraph GEN.1.11A., that the applicant should not be
subject to such a condition.
GEN.1.11. Where entry clearance or leave to enter or
remain is granted under this Appendix (and without
prejudice to the specific provision that is made in this
Appendix in respect of a no recourse to public funds
condition), that leave may be subject to such conditions
as the decision-maker considers appropriate in a
particular case.
GEN.1.11A. Where entry clearance or leave to remain
as a partner, child or parent is granted under DECP.1.2., D-LTRP.1.2., D-ECC.1.1., D-LTRC.1.1., DECPT.1.2. or D-LTRPT.1.2., if the decision maker is
satisfied that:
(a) the applicant is destitute as defined in section 95
of the Immigration and Asylum Act 1999, or is at risk

of imminent destitution; or
(b) there are reasons relating to the welfare of a
relevant child which outweigh the considerations for
imposing or maintaining the condition (treating the
best interests of a relevant child as a primary
consideration); or
(c) the applicant is facing exceptional circumstances
affecting their income or expenditure
then the applicant will not be subject to a condition of no
access to public funds. If the decision maker is not so
satisfied, the applicant will be subject to a condition of
no access to public funds.
GEN 1.11B. For the purposes of GEN 1.11A ‘relevant
child’ means a person who:
(a) is under the age of 18 years at the date of
application; and
(b) it is clear from the information provided by the
applicant, is a child who would be affected by a
decision to impose or maintain the no access to
public funds condition.
GEN.1.12. In this Appendix, “decision-maker” refers, as
the case may be, to the Secretary of State, an
Immigration Officer or an Entry Clearance Officer.
GEN.1.13. For the purposes of paragraphs D-LTRP.1.1.,
D-LTRP.1.2., DILRP.1.2., D-LTRPT.1.1., D-LTRPT.1.2.
and D-ILRPT.1.2. (excluding a grant of limited leave to
remain as a fiancé(e) or proposed civil partner), where
at the date of application the applicant has extant leave
as a partner or parent (as applicable) granted under this
Appendix, the remaining period of that extant leave up
to a maximum of 28 days will be added to the period of
limited leave to remain granted under that paragraph
(which may therefore exceed 30 months).
GEN.1.14. Where a person aged 18 or over is granted
entry clearance or limited leave to enter or remain under
this Appendix, or where a person granted such entry
clearance or limited leave to enter or remain will be
aged 18 before that period of entry clearance or limited
leave expires, the entry clearance or leave will, in
addition to any other conditions which may apply, be
granted subject to the conditions in Appendix ATAS of

these rules.
GEN.1.15. Where, pursuant to paragraph D-ILRP.1.2.,
D-ILRP.1.3., D-ILRPT.1.2. or D-ILRPT.1.3., a person
who has made an application for indefinite leave to
remain under this Appendix does not meet the
requirements for indefinite leave to remain, but the
Secretary of State believes they may qualify for limited
leave to remain under this Appendix or under Appendix
Private Life:
(a) the Secretary of State will instead treat the
application for indefinite leave to remain as an
application for limited leave to remain; and
(b) the Secretary of State will notify the applicant in
writing of any requirement to pay an immigration health
charge under the Immigration (Health Charge) Order
2015 in relation to that application for limited leave to
remain; and
(c) if any requested immigration health charge is not
paid, the application for limited leave to remain will be
invalid and will not be considered and the Secretary of
State will not refund any fee paid in respect of the
application for indefinite leave to remain.
GEN.1.16. Where an application or claim raising Article
8 is considered under Appendix FM and EX.1. applies,
the requirements of paragraphs R-LTRP.1.1.(c) and RLTRPT.1.1.(c) are not met.
GEN.1.17. An application for settlement as a partner or
parent (or the dependent child of a partner or parent) on
the basis of a 10-year qualifying period for settlement
must meet the requirements under Appendix Settlement
Family Life (and the application for settlement will not be
considered under this Appendix).
Leave to enter
GEN.2.1. Subject to paragraph GEN.2.3., the
requirements to be met by a person seeking leave to
enter the UK under this route are that the person(a) must have a valid entry clearance for entry under
this route; and

(b) must produce to the Immigration Officer on arrival a
valid national passport or other document satisfactorily
establishing their identity and nationality.
GEN.2.2. If a person does not meet the requirements of
paragraph GEN.2.1. entry will be refused.
GEN.2.3.(1). Where an applicant for leave to enter the
UK remains in the UK on immigration bail and the
requirements of sub-paragraph (2) are met, paragraph
GEN.1.10., D-LTRP.1.2., D-LTRC.1.1. or D-LTRPT.1.2.
(as appropriate) will apply, as if paragraph D-LTRP.1.2.,
D-LTRC.1.1. or D-LTRPT.1.2. (where relevant) provided
for the granting of leave to enter not leave to remain
(and except that the references to leave to remain and
limited leave to remain are to be read as leave to enter).
(2). The requirements of this sub-paragraph are met
where:
(a) the applicant satisfies the requirements in paragraph
R-LTRP.1.1.(a), (b) and (d), paragraph R-LTRC.1.1.(a),
(b) and (d) or paragraph R-LTRPT.1.1.(a), (b) and (d),
as if those were requirements for leave to enter not
leave to remain (and except that the references to leave
to remain and indefinite leave to remain are to be read
as leave to enter); or
(b) a parent of the applicant has been granted leave to
enter in accordance with this paragraph and the
applicant satisfies the requirements in paragraph RLTRC.1.1.(a), (b) and (d), as if those were requirements
for leave to enter not leave to remain and as if
paragraph R-LTRC.1.1.(d)(iii) referred to a parent of the
applicant being or having been granted leave to enter in
accordance with this paragraph (and except that the
references to leave to remain are to be read as leave to
enter).

Exceptional circumstances
GEN.3.1.(1) Where:
(a) the financial requirement in paragraph EECP.3.1., E-LTRP.3.1., E-LTRP.3.7. (in the context of
an application for limited leave to remain as a
partner), E-ECC.2.1., E-ECC.2.5., E-LTRC.2.1., or

E-LTRC.2.5. applies, and is not met from the
specified sources referred to in the relevant
paragraph; and
(b) it is evident from the information provided by the
applicant that there are exceptional circumstances
which could render refusal of entry clearance or
leave to remain a breach of Article 8 of the
European Convention on Human Rights, because
such refusal could result in unjustifiably harsh
consequences for the applicant, their partner or a
relevant child; then
the decision-maker must consider whether such
financial requirement is met through taking into account
the sources of income, financial support or funds set out
in paragraph 21A(2) of Appendix FM-SE (subject to the
considerations in sub-paragraphs (3) to (8) of that
paragraph).
(2) Where the financial requirement in paragraph EECP.3.1., E-LTRP.3.1., E-LTRP.3.7 (in the context of an
application for limited leave to remain as a partner), EECC.2.1., E-ECC.2.5., E-LTRC.2.1., or E-LTRC.2.5. is
met following consideration under sub-paragraph (1)
(and provided that the other relevant requirements of
the Immigration Rules are also met and D-ECP.1.2A.,DLTRP.1.2A., D-ECC.1.1A and D-LTRC.1.1A do not
apply), the applicant will be granted entry clearance or
leave to remain under, as appropriate, paragraph DECP.1.2., D-LTRP.1.2., D-ECC.1.1., D-LTRC.1.1.,
Appendix Adoption of the Immigration Rules.
GEN.3.2.(1) Subject to sub-paragraph (4), where an
application for entry clearance or leave to enter or
remain made under this Appendix, or an application for
leave to remain which has otherwise been considered
under this Appendix, does not otherwise meet the
requirements of this Appendix or Part Suitability, the
decision-maker must consider whether the
circumstances in sub-paragraph (2) apply.
(2) Where sub-paragraph (1) above applies, the
decision-maker must consider, on the basis of the
information provided by the applicant, whether there are
exceptional circumstances which would render refusal
of entry clearance, or leave to enter or remain, a breach
of Article 8 of the European Convention on Human

Rights, because such refusal would result in
unjustifiably harsh consequences for the applicant, their
partner, a relevant child or another family member
whose Article 8 rights it is evident from that information
would be affected by a decision to refuse the
application.
(3) Where the exceptional circumstances referred to in
sub-paragraph (2) above apply, unless D-ECP.1.2A., DLTRP.1.2A., D-ECPT.1.2A, D-LTRPT.1.2A., D-ECC.1.1A
and D-LTRC.1.1A. applies, the applicant will be granted
entry clearance or leave to enter or remain under, as
appropriate, paragraph D-ECP.1.2., D-LTRP.1.2., DECC.1.1., D-LTRC.1.1., D-ECPT.1.2. or D-LTRPT.1.2.
(4) DELETED.
GEN.3.3.(1) In considering an application for entry
clearance or leave to enter or remain where paragraph
GEN.3.1. or GEN.3.2. applies, the decision-maker must
take into account, as a primary consideration, the best
interests of any relevant child.
(2) In paragraphs GEN.3.1. and GEN.3.2., and this
paragraph, “relevant child” means a person who:
(a) is under the age of 18 years at the date of the
application; and
(b) it is evident from the information provided by the
applicant would be affected by a decision to refuse
the application.

Family life with a partner
Section EC-P: Entry clearance as a partner
EC-P.1.1. The requirements to be met for entry
clearance as a partner are that(a) the applicant must be outside the UK;
(b) the applicant must have made a valid application for
entry clearance as a partner;
(c) the applicant must not fall for refusal under Section
S-EC: Suitability–entry clearance; and
(d) the applicant must meet all of the requirements of

Section E-ECP: Eligibility for entry clearance as a
partner.
Section S-EC: Suitability-entry clearance
S-EC.1.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
S-EC.1.2. DELETED.
S-EC.1.3. DELETED.
S-EC.1.4. DELETED.
S-EC.1.5. DELETED.
S-EC.1.6. DELETED.
S-EC.1.7. DELETED.
S-EC.1.8. DELETED.
S-EC.1.9. DELETED.
S-EC.2.1. DELETED.
S-EC.2.2. DELETED.
S-EC.2.3. DELETED.
S-EC.2.4. DELETED.
S-EC.2.5. DELETED.
S-EC.3.1. DELETED.
S-EC.3.2. DELETED.
Section E-ECP: Eligibility for entry clearance as a
partner
E-ECP.1.1. To meet the eligibility requirements for entry
clearance as a partner all of the requirements in
paragraphs E-ECP.A1.1. to 4.2. must be met.
E-ECP.A1.1. The applicant must provide a passport or

other document which satisfactorily establishes their
identity and nationality.
Relationship requirements
E-ECP.2.1. The applicant’s partner must be(a) a British Citizen in the UK, subject to paragraph
GEN.1.3.(c); or
(b) present and settled in the UK, subject to paragraph
GEN.1.3.(b); or
(c) in the UK with protection status; or
(d) in the UK with limited leave under Appendix EU, in
accordance with paragraph GEN 1.3.(d); or
(e) in the UK with limited leave as a worker or business
person under Appendix ECAA Extension of Stay, in
accordance with paragraph GEN.1.3.(e); or
(f) in the UK with permission as a Stateless person.
E-ECP.2.2. The applicant must be aged 18 or over at
the date of application.
E-ECP.2.3. The partner must be aged 18 or over at the
date of application.
E-ECP.2.4. The applicant and their partner must not be
within the prohibited degree of relationship.
E-ECP.2.5. The applicant and their partner must have
met in person.
E-ECP.2.6. The relationship between the applicant and
their partner must be genuine and subsisting.
E-ECP.2.7. If the applicant and partner are married or in
a civil partnership it must be a valid marriage or civil
partnership, as specified.
E-ECP.2.8. If the applicant is a fiancé(e) or proposed
civil partner they must be seeking entry to the UK to
enable their marriage or civil partnership to take place in
the United Kingdom.
E-ECP.2.9. (i) Any previous relationship of the applicant

or their partner must have broken down permanently,
unless it is a relationship which falls within paragraph
278(i) of these Rules; and
(ii) If the applicant is a fiancé(e) or proposed civil
partner, neither the applicant nor their partner can be
married to, or in a civil partnership with, another person
at the date of application.
E-ECP.2.10. The applicant and partner must intend to
live together permanently in the UK.
Financial requirements
E-ECP.3.1. The applicant must provide specified
evidence, from the sources listed in paragraph EECP.3.2., of:
(a) a specified gross annual income of at least
£29,000
(b) specified savings of:
(i) £16,000; and
(ii) additional savings of an amount equivalent to
2.5 times the amount which is the difference
between the gross annual income from the
sources listed in paragraph E-ECP.3.2.(a)- (d)
and the total amount required under paragraph
E-ECP.3.1.(a); or
(c) the requirements in paragraph E-ECP.3.3. being
met.
E-ECP.3.2. When determining whether the financial
requirement in paragraph E-ECP. 3.1. is met only the
following sources will be taken into account(a) income of the partner from specified employment or
self-employment, which, in respect of a partner
returning to the UK with the applicant, can include
specified employment or self-employment overseas and
in the UK;
(b) specified pension income of the applicant and
partner;
(c) any specified maternity allowance or bereavement
benefit received by the partner in the UK or any

specified payment relating to service in HM Forces
received by the applicant or partner;
(d) other specified income of the applicant and partner;
and
(e) specified savings of the applicant and partner.
E-ECP.3.3. The requirements to be met under this
paragraph are(a) the applicant’s partner must be receiving one or
more of the following (i) Disability Living Allowance; or
(ii) Severe Disablement Allowance; or
(iii) Industrial Injuries Disablement Benefit; or
(iv) Attendance Allowance; or
(v) Carer’s Allowance; or
(vi) Personal Independence Payment; or
(vii) Armed Forces Independence Payment or
Guaranteed Income Payment under the Armed
Forces Compensation Scheme; or
(viii) Constant Attendance Allowance, Mobility
Supplement or War Disablement Pension under the
War Pensions Scheme; or
(ix) Police Injury Pension; or
(x) Child Disability Payment (Scotland); or
(xi) Adult Disability Payment (Scotland); or
(xii) Carer’s Support Payment (Scotland); or
(xiii) Pension Age Disability Payment (Scotland); or
(xiv) Scottish Adult Disability Living Allowance
(Scotland); and
(b) the applicant must provide evidence that their
partner is able to maintain and accommodate
themselves, the applicant and any dependants
adequately in the UK without recourse to public funds.
E-ECP.3.4. The applicant must provide evidence that
there will be adequate accommodation, without
recourse to public funds, for the family, including other
family members who are not included in the application

but who live in the same household, which the family
own or occupy exclusively: accommodation will not be
regarded as adequate if(a) it is, or will be, overcrowded; or
(b) it contravenes public health regulations.
English language requirement
E-ECP.4.1. The applicant must provide specified
evidence that they(a) are a national of a majority English speaking country
listed in paragraph GEN.1.6.;
(b) have passed an English language test in speaking
and listening at a minimum of level A1 of the Common
European Framework of Reference for Languages with
a provider approved by the Secretary of State;
(c) have an academic qualification which is either a
Bachelor’s or Master’s degree or PhD awarded by an
educational establishment in the UK; or, if awarded by
an educational establishment outside the UK, is
deemed by the qualification and language assessments
provider to meet or exceed the recognised standard of a
Bachelor’s or Master’s degree or PhD in the UK, and
the qualification and language assessments provider
has confirmed that the degree was taught or researched
in English to level A1 of the Common European
Framework of Reference for Languages or above; or
(d) are exempt from the English language requirement
under paragraph E-ECP.4.2.
E-ECP.4.2. The applicant is exempt from the English
language requirement if at the date of application(a) the applicant is aged 65 or over;
(b) the applicant has a disability (physical or mental
condition) which prevents the applicant from meeting
the requirement; or
(c) there are exceptional circumstances which prevent
the applicant from being able to meet the requirement
prior to entry to the UK.

Section D-ECP: Decision on application for entry
clearance as a partner
D-ECP.1.1. Except where paragraph GEN.3.1.(2) or
GEN.3.2.(3) of this Appendix applies, an applicant who
meets the requirements for entry clearance as a partner
(other than as a fiancé(e) or proposed civil partner) will
be granted entry clearance for an initial period not
exceeding 33 months, and subject to a condition of no
recourse to public funds, and they will be eligible to
apply for settlement after a continuous period of at least
60 months in the UK with leave to enter granted on the
basis of such entry clearance or with limited leave to
remain as a partner granted under paragraph DLTRP.1.1. (excluding in all cases any period of leave to
enter or limited leave to remain as a fiancé(e) or
proposed civil partner); or, where the applicant is a
fiancé(e) or proposed civil partner, the applicant will be
granted entry clearance for a period not exceeding 6
months, and subject to a prohibition on employment and
a condition of no recourse to public funds.
D-ECP.1.2. Unless D-ECP.1.2A. applies, where
paragraph GEN.3.1.(2) or GEN.3.2.(3) of this Appendix
applies, an applicant who meets the requirements for
entry clearance as a partner (other than as a fiancé(e)
or proposed civil partner) will be granted entry clearance
for an initial period not exceeding 33 months, and
subject to a condition of no recourse to public funds
unless the decision-maker considers, with reference to
paragraph GEN.1.11A., that the applicant should not be
subject to such a condition, and they will be eligible to
apply for settlement after a continuous period of at least
120 months in the UK with leave to enter granted on the
basis of such entry clearance or of entry clearance
granted under paragraph D-ECP.1.1. or with limited
leave to remain as a partner granted under paragraph
D-LTRP.1.1. or D-LTRP.1.2. (excluding in all cases any
period of leave to enter or limited leave to remain as a
fiancé(e) or proposed civil partner); or, where the
applicant is a fiancé(e) or proposed civil partner, the
applicant will be granted entry clearance for a period not
exceeding 6 months, and subject to a prohibition on
employment and a condition of no recourse to public
funds.

D-ECP.1.2A. Where paragraph GEN 3.2(3) applies but
the applicant does not meet the suitability paragraphs
SUI 2.1., SUI 2.3., SUI 3.1., SUI 4.1., SUI 5.1., in Part
Suitability, the application on Appendix FM will be
refused.
D-ECP.1.3. If the applicant does not meet the
requirements for entry clearance as a partner, the
application will be refused.
Section R-LTRP: Requirements for limited leave to
remain as a partner
R-LTRP.1.1. The requirements to be met for limited
leave to remain as a partner are(a) the applicant and their partner must be in the UK;
(b) the applicant must have made a valid application for
limited or indefinite leave to remain as a partner; and
either
(c)
(i) the applicant must not fall for refusal under
Section S-LTR: Suitability leave to remain; and
(ii) the applicant meets all of the requirements of
Section E-LTRP: Eligibility for leave to remain as a
partner; or
(d)
(i) the applicant must not fall for refusal under
Section S-LTR: Suitability leave to remain; and
(ii) the applicant meets the requirements of
paragraphs E-LTRP.1.2-1.12. and E-LTRP.2.1-2.2.;
and
(iii) paragraph EX.1. applies.
Section S-LTR: Suitability-leave to remain
S-LTR.1.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
S-LTR.1.2. DELETED.
S-LTR.1.3. DELETED.

S-LTR.1.4. DELETED.
S-LTR.1.5. DELETED.
S-LTR.1.6. DELETED.
S-LTR.1.7. DELETED.
S-LTR.1.8. DELETED.
S-LTR.2.1. DELETED.
S-LTR.2.2. DELETED.
S-LTR.2.3. DELETED.
S-LTR.2.4. DELETED.
S-LTR.2.5. DELETED.
S-LTR.3.1. DELETED.
S-LTR.4.1. DELETED.
S-LTR.4.2. DELETED.
S-LTR.4.3. DELETED.
S-LTR.4.4. DELETED.
S-LTR.4.5. DELETED.
Section E-LTRP: Eligibility for limited leave to
remain as a partner
E-LTRP.1.1. To qualify for limited leave to remain as a
partner all of the requirements of paragraphs ELTRP.1.2. to 4.2. must be met.
Relationship requirements
E-LTRP.1.2. The applicant’s partner must be(a) a British Citizen in the UK;
(b) present and settled in the UK;

(c) in the UK with protection status;
(d) in the UK with limited leave under Appendix EU, in
accordance with paragraph GEN.1.3.(d); or
(e) in the UK with limited leave as a worker or business
person under Appendix ECAA Extension of Stay, in
accordance with paragraph GEN.1.3.(e); or
(f) in the UK with permission as a Stateless person.
E-LTRP.1.3. The applicant must be aged 18 or over at
the date of application.
E-LTRP.1.4. The partner must be aged 18 or over at the
date of application.
E-LTRP.1.5. The applicant and their partner must not be
within the prohibited degree of relationship.
E-LTRP.1.6. The applicant and their partner must have
met in person.
E-LTRP.1.7. The relationship between the applicant and
their partner must be genuine and subsisting.
E-LTRP.1.8. If the applicant and partner are married or
in a civil partnership it must be a valid marriage or civil
partnership, as specified.
E-LTRP.1.9. Any previous relationship of the applicant
or their partner must have broken down permanently,
unless it is a relationship which falls within paragraph
278(i) of these Rules.
E-LTRP.1.10. The applicant and their partner must
intend to live together permanently in the UK and, in any
application for further leave to remain as a partner
(except where the applicant is in the UK as a fiancé(e)
or proposed civil partner) and in any application for
indefinite leave to remain as a partner, the applicant
must provide evidence that, since entry clearance as a
partner was granted under paragraph D-ECP1.1. or
since the last grant of limited leave to remain as a
partner, the applicant and their partner have lived
together in the UK or there is good reason, consistent
with a continuing intention to live together permanently
in the UK, for any period in which they have not done
so.

E-LTRP.1.11. If the applicant is in the UK with leave as a
fiancé(e) or proposed civil partner and the marriage or
civil partnership did not take place during that period of
leave, there must be good reason why and evidence
that it will take place within the next 6 months.
E-LTRP.1.12. The applicant’s partner cannot be the
applicant’s fiancé(e) or proposed civil partner, unless
the applicant was granted entry clearance as that
person’s fiancé(e) or proposed civil partner.
Immigration status requirements
E-LTRP.2.1. The applicant must not be in the UK(a) as a visitor; or
(b) with valid leave granted for a period of 6 months or
less, unless that leave is as a fiancé(e) or proposed civil
partner, or was granted pending the outcome of family
court or divorce proceedings
E-LTRP.2.2. The applicant must not be in the UK(a) on immigration bail, unless:
(i) the Secretary of State is satisfied that the
applicant arrived in the UK more than 6 months
prior to the date of application; and
(ii) paragraph EX.1. applies; or
(b) in breach of immigration laws (except that, where
the exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies any current period of overstaying
will be disregarded), unless paragraph EX.1.
applies.
Financial requirements for an applicant who is
making their first application on the partner route
on or after 11 April 2024
E-LTRP.3.1. The applicant must provide specified
evidence, from the sources listed in paragraph ELTRP.3.2., of:
(a) a specified gross annual income of at least
£29,000

(b) specified savings of:
(i) £16,000; and
(ii) additional savings of an amount equivalent to
2.5 times the amount which is the difference
between the gross annual income from the
sources listed in paragraph E-LTRP.3.2.(a)-(f)
and the total amount required under paragraph
E-LTRP.3.1.(a); or
(c) the requirements in paragraph E-LTRP.3.3. being
met, unless paragraph EX.1. applies.
E-LTRP.3.2. When determining whether the financial
requirement in paragraph E-LTRP.3.1. or E-LTRP.3.7. is
met only the following sources may be taken into
account(a) income of the partner from specified employment or
self-employment;
(b) income of the applicant from specified employment
or self-employment unless they are working illegally;
(c) specified pension income of the applicant and
partner;
(d) any specified maternity allowance or bereavement
benefit received by the applicant and partner in the UK
or any specified payment relating to service in HM
Forces received by the applicant or partner;
(e) other specified income of the applicant and partner;
(f) income from the sources at (b), (d) or (e) of a
dependent child of the applicant or of the applicant’s
partner under paragraph E-LTRP.3.1. or E-LTRP.3.7.
who is aged 18 years or over; and
(g) specified savings of the applicant, partner and a
dependent child of the applicant or of the applicant’s
partner under paragraph E-LTRP.3.1. or E-LTRP.3.7.
who is aged 18 years or over.
E-LTRP.3.3. The requirements to meet this paragraph
are(a) the applicant’s partner must be receiving one or
more of the following:
(i) Disability Living Allowance; or

(ii) Severe Disablement Allowance; or
(iii) Industrial Injuries Disablement Benefit; or
(iv) Attendance Allowance; or
(v) Carer’s Allowance; or
(vi) Personal Independence Payment; or
(vii) Armed Forces Independence Payment or
Guaranteed Income Payment under the Armed
Forces Compensation Scheme; or
(viii) Constant Attendance Allowance, Mobility
Supplement or War Disablement Pension under the
War Pensions Scheme; or
(ix) Police Injury Pension; or
(x) Child Disability Payment (Scotland); or
(xi) Adult Disability Payment (Scotland); or
(xii) Carer’s Support Payment (Scotland); or
(xiii) Pension Age Disability Payment (Scotland); or
(xiv) Scottish Adult Disability Living Allowance
(Scotland); and
(b) the applicant must provide evidence that their
partner is able to maintain and accommodate
themselves, the applicant and any dependants
adequately in the UK without recourse to public funds.
E-LTRP.3.4. The applicant must provide evidence that
there will be adequate accommodation, without
recourse to public funds, for the family, including other
family members who are not included in the application
but who live in the same household, which the family
own or occupy exclusively, unless paragraph EX.1.
applies: accommodation will not be regarded as
adequate if(a) it is, or will be, overcrowded; or
(b) it contravenes public health regulations.
Transitional financial requirements for an applicant
who made their first application as a fiancé(e),
proposed civil partner or as a partner before 11
April 2024 and who was granted permission as a
fiancé(e), proposed civil partner or as a partner on

the five-year route to settlement as a result of that
application
E-LTRP.3.5. A person who has permission as a partner
on the five-year route to settlement, or as a fiancé(e) or
proposed civil partner, at the date of application, must
meet the transitional financial requirement at ELTRP.3.7. if they made an application for entry
clearance or permission to stay as a fiancé(e), proposed
civil partner or partner under Appendix FM before 11
April 2024, which was successful.
E-LTRP.3.6. To fall within E-LTRP.3.5. the applicant
must be applying for permission to stay with the same
partner for which they were last granted permission.
Those applying for permission to stay with a new
partner must meet the financial requirement at ELTRP.3.1. to E-LTRP.3.4.
E-LTRP.3.7. The applicant must provide specified
evidence, from the sources listed in paragraph ELTRP.3.2., of:
(a) a specified gross annual income of at least:
(i) £18,600;
(ii) an additional £3,800 for the first child; and
(iii)an additional £2,400 for each additional child;
alone or in combination with
(b) specified savings of:
(i) £16,000; and
(ii) additional savings of an amount equivalent to
2.5 times the amount which is the difference
between the gross annual income from the
sources listed in paragraph E-LTRP.3.2.(a)-(f)
and the total amount required under paragraph
E-LTRP.3.7.(a); or
(c) the requirements in paragraph E-LTRP.3.3. being
met, unless paragraph EX.1. applies.
In this paragraph “child” means a dependent child of the
applicant or the applicant’s partner who is:
(a) under the age of 18 years, or who was under the
age of 18 years when they were first granted entry
under this route;

(b) applying for entry clearance or leave to remain
as a dependant of the applicant or the applicant’s
partner, or is in the UK with leave as their
dependant;
(c) not a British Citizen, settled in the UK, or in the
UK with valid limited leave to enter or remain
granted under paragraph EU3 or EU3A of Appendix
EU to these Rules; and
(d) not an EEA national with a right to be admitted to
or reside in the UK under the Immigration (European
Economic Area) Regulations 2016.
E-LTRP.3.8. Where the financial requirement at ELTRP.3.7. exceeds £29,000 due to the number of
children in the family, the applicant will only need to
provide evidence of a gross annual income of £29,000.
E-LTRP.3.9. The applicant must meet the
accommodation requirement at E-LTRP.3.4.
English language requirement
E-LTRP.4.1. If the applicant has not met the requirement
in a previous application for entry clearance or leave to
remain as a partner or parent, the applicant must
provide specified evidence that they(a) are a national of a majority English speaking country
listed in paragraph GEN.1.6.;
(b) have passed an English language test in speaking
and listening at a minimum of level A1 of the Common
European Framework of Reference for Languages with
a provider approved by the Secretary of State;
(c) have an academic qualification which is either a
Bachelor’s or Master’s degree or PhD awarded by an
educational establishment in the UK; or, if awarded by
an educational establishment outside the UK, is
deemed by the qualification and language assessments
provider to meet or exceed the recognised standard of a
Bachelor’s or Master’s degree or PhD in the UK, and
the qualification and language assessments provider
has confirmed that the degree was taught or researched
in English to level A1 of the Common European
Framework of Reference for Languages or above; or

(d) are exempt from the English language requirement
under paragraph E-LTRP.4.2.;
unless paragraph EX.1. applies.
E-LTRP.4.1A. Where the applicant:
(i) in a previous application for entry clearance or leave
to remain as a partner or parent, met the English
language requirement in paragraph E-ECP.4.1.(b), ELTRP.4.1.(b), E-ECPT.4.1.(b) or E-LTRPT.5.1.(b) on the
basis that they had passed an English language test in
speaking and listening at level A1 of the Common
European Framework of Reference for Languages;
(ii) was granted entry clearance or leave to remain as a
partner or parent; and
(iii) now seeks further leave to remain as a partner after
30 months in the UK with leave as a partner; then, the
applicant must provide specified evidence that they:
(a) are a national of a majority English speaking
country listed in paragraph GEN.1.6.;
(b) have passed an English language test in
speaking and listening at a minimum of level A2 of
the Common European Framework of Reference for
Languages with a provider approved by the
Secretary of State;
(c) have an academic qualification which is either a
Bachelor‟s or Master‟s degree or PhD awarded by
an educational establishment in the UK; or, if
awarded by an educational establishment outside
the UK, is deemed by the qualification and language
assessments provider to meet or exceed the
recognised standard of a Bachelor‟s or Master‟s
degree or PhD in the UK, and the qualification and
language assessments provider has confirmed that
the degree was taught or researched in English to
level A2 of the Common European Framework of
Reference for Languages or above; or
(d) are exempt from the English language
requirement under paragraph E-LTRP.4.2.;
unless paragraph EX.1. applies.
E-LTRP.4.2. The applicant is exempt from the English
language requirement in paragraph E-LTRP.4.1. or E-

LTRP.4.1A. if at the date of application(a) the applicant is aged 65 or over;
(b) the applicant has a disability (physical or mental
condition) which prevents the applicant from meeting
the requirement; or
(c) there are exceptional circumstances which prevent
the applicant from being able to meet the requirement.
Section D-LTRP: Decision on application for limited
leave to remain as a partner
D-LTRP.1.1. If the applicant meets the requirements in
paragraph R-LTRP.1.1.(a) to (c) for limited leave to
remain as a partner the applicant will be granted limited
leave to remain for a period not exceeding 30 months,
and subject to a condition of no recourse to public
funds, and they will be eligible to apply for settlement
after a continuous period of at least 60 months with
such leave or in the UK with leave to enter granted on
the basis of entry clearance granted under paragraph DECP.1.1. (excluding in all cases any period of leave to
enter or limited leave to remain as a fiancé(e) or
proposed civil partner); or, if paragraph E-LTRP.1.11.
applies, the applicant will be granted limited leave for a
period not exceeding 6 months and subject to a
condition of no recourse to public funds and a
prohibition on employment.
D-LTRP.1.2. Unless D-LTRP.1.2A. applies, if the
applicant meets the requirements in paragraph RLTRP.1.1.(a), (b) and (d) for limited leave to remain as a
partner, or paragraph GEN.3.1.(2) or GEN.3.2.(3)
applies to an applicant for leave to remain as a partner,
the applicant will be granted leave to remain for a period
not exceeding 30 months and subject to a condition of
no recourse to public funds unless the decision-maker
considers, with reference to paragraph GEN.1.11A., that
the applicant should not be subject to such a condition,
and they will be eligible to apply for settlement after a
continuous period of at least 120 months in the UK with
such leave, with limited leave to remain as a partner
granted under paragraph D-LTRP.1.1., or in the UK with
leave to enter granted on the basis of entry clearance
as a partner granted under paragraph D-ECP1.1. or D-

ECP.1.2. (excluding in all cases any period of leave to
enter or limited leave to remain as a fiancé(e) or
proposed civil partner), or, if paragraph E-LTRP.1.11.
applies, the applicant will be granted limited leave for a
period not exceeding 6 months and subject to a
condition of no recourse to public funds and a
prohibition on employment.
D-LTRP.1.2A. Where paragraph GEN 3.2.(3) applies but
the applicant does not meet the suitability paragraphs
SUI 2.1., SUI 3.1., SUI 4.1., SUI 5.1., in Part Suitability,
the application on Appendix FM will be refused.
D-LTRP.1.3. If the applicant does not meet the
requirements for limited leave to remain as a partner the
application will be refused.
Section R-ILRP: Requirements for indefinite leave to
remain (settlement) as a partner
R-ILRP.1.1. The requirements to be met for indefinite
leave to remain as a partner are that(a) the applicant and their partner must be in the UK;
(b) the applicant must have made a valid application for
indefinite leave to remain as a partner;
(c) the applicant must not fall for refusal under Section
S-ILR: Suitability for indefinite leave to remain; and
(d) deleted
(e) the applicant must meet all of the requirements of
Section E-ILRP: Eligibility for indefinite leave to remain
as a partner.
Section S-ILR: Suitability for indefinite leave to
remain
S-ILR.1.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
S-ILR.1.2. DELETED.
S-ILR.1.3. DELETED.
S-ILR.1.4. DELETED.

S-ILR.1.5. DELETED.
S-ILR.1.6. DELETED.
S-ILR.1.7. DELETED.
S-ILR.1.8. DELETED.
S-ILR.1.9. DELETED.
S-ILR.1.10. DELETED.
S-ILR.2.1. DELETED.
S-ILR.2.2. DELETED.
S-ILR.2.3. DELETED.
S-ILR.2.4. DELETED.
S-ILR.3.1. DELETED.
S-ILR.4.1. DELETED.
S-ILR.4.2. DELETED.
S-ILR.4.3. DELETED.
S-ILR.4.4. DELETED.
S-ILR.4.5. DELETED.
Section E-ILRP: Eligibility for indefinite leave to
remain as a partner
E-ILRP.1.1. To meet the eligibility requirements for
indefinite leave to remain as a partner after a 5 year
qualifying period all of the requirements of paragraphs
E-ILRP.1.2. to 1.6. must be met.
E-ILRP.1.2. The applicant must be in the UK with valid
leave to remain as a partner under this Appendix
(except that, where the Exceptions for overstayers
section of Part Suitability applies, any current period of
overstaying will be disregarded).
E-ILRP.1.3. (1) Subject to subparagraph (2), the

applicant must, at the date of application, have
completed a period of continuous residence in the UK of
at least 5 years (60 months) with the following:
(a) leave to enter granted on the basis of entry
clearance as a partner granted under paragraph DECP.1.1; or
(b) limited leave to remain as a partner granted under
paragraph D-LTRP.1.1; or
(c) a combination of leave under (a) and (b).
(1A) In respect of an application falling within
subparagraph (1) above, the applicant must meet all the
requirements of Section E-LTRP: Eligibility for leave to
remain as a partner (except that paragraph E-LTRP.1.2.
cannot be met on the basis set out in sub-paragraph (c),
(d), (e) or (f) of that paragraph, and in applying
paragraph E-LTRP.3.1.(b)(ii) or E-LTRP.3.7.(b)(ii)
disregard the words “2.5 times”).
(2) In calculating periods of leave for the purposes of
subparagraph (1) above, any period of leave to enter or
leave to remain as a fiancé(e) or proposed civil partner
will be disregarded.
E-ILRP.1.4. In calculating the periods under paragraph
E-ILRP.1.3. only the periods when the applicant’s
partner is the same person as the applicant’s partner for
the previous period of limited leave shall be taken into
account.
E-ILRP.1.5. In calculating the periods under paragraph
E-ILRP.1.3. the words “in the UK” in that paragraph shall
not apply to any period(s) to which the evidence in
paragraph 26A of Appendix FM-SE applies.
E-ILRP.1.5A. In calculating the periods under paragraph
E-ILRP.1.3., any current period of overstaying will be
disregarded where the Exceptions for overstayers
section of Part Suitability applies. Any previous period of
overstaying between periods of leave will also be
disregarded where: the further application was made
before 24 November 2016 and within 28 days of the
expiry of leave; or the further application was made on
or after 24 November 2016 and the Exceptions for
overstayers section of Part Suitability applied.

E-ILRP.1.6. The applicant must have demonstrated
sufficient knowledge of the English language and
sufficient knowledge about life in the United Kingdom in
accordance with the requirements of Appendix KoLL of
these Rules.
Section D-ILRP: Decision on application for
indefinite leave to remain as a partner
D-ILRP.1.1. If the applicant meets all of the
requirements for indefinite leave to remain as a partner
the applicant will be granted indefinite leave to remain.
D-ILRP.1.2. If the applicant does not meet the
requirements for indefinite leave to remain as a partner
as they have not demonstrated sufficient knowledge of
the English language or about life in the United
Kingdom in accordance with Appendix KoLL, subject to
compliance with any requirement notified under
paragraph GEN.1.15.(b), the applicant will be granted
further limited leave to remain as a partner for a period
not exceeding 30 months, and subject to a condition of
no recourse to public funds.
D-ILRP.1.3. If the applicant does not meet all the
eligibility requirements for indefinite leave to remain as a
partner, and does not qualify for further limited leave to
remain as a partner under paragraph D-ILRP. 1.2. or DLTRP.1.2A., the application will be refused, unless the
applicant meets the requirements in paragraph RLTRP.1.1.(a), (b) and (d) for limited leave to remain as a
partner. Where they do, and subject to compliance with
any requirement notified under paragraph GEN.1.15.(b),
the applicant will be granted further limited leave to
remain as a partner for a period not exceeding 30
months under paragraph D-LTRP.1.2. and subject to a
condition of no recourse to public funds unless the
Secretary of State considers that the person should not
be subject to such a condition.

Section EX: Exceptions to certain
eligibility requirements for leave to
remain as a partner or parent
EX.1. This paragraph applies if

(a)
(i) the applicant has a genuine and subsisting
parental relationship with a child who(aa) is under the age of 18 years, or was under
the age of 18 years when the applicant was first
granted leave on the basis that this paragraph
applied;
(bb) is in the UK;
(cc) is a British Citizen or has lived in the UK
continuously for at least the 7 years immediately
preceding the date of application ;and
(ii) taking into account their best interests as a
primary consideration, it would not be reasonable to
expect the child to leave the UK; or
(b) the applicant has a genuine and subsisting
relationship with a partner who is in the UK and is a
British Citizen, settled in the UK, or in the UK with
protection status, in the UK with limited leave under
Appendix EU in accordance with paragraph GEN.1.3.
(d), or in the UK with limited leave as a worker or
business person under Appendix ECAA Extension of
Stay in accordance with paragraph GEN.1.3.(e), or in
the UK with permission as a Stateless person, and there
are insurmountable obstacles to family life with that
partner continuing outside the UK.
EX.2. For the purposes of paragraph EX.1.(b)
“insurmountable obstacles” means the very significant
difficulties which would be faced by the applicant or their
partner in continuing their family life together outside the
UK and which could not be overcome or would entail
very serious hardship for the applicant or their partner.

Bereaved partner
Section BPILR: Indefinite leave to remain
(settlement) as a bereaved partner
BPILR.1.1. DELETED
Section E-BPILR: Eligibility for indefinite leave to
remain as a bereaved partner

E-BPILR.1.1. DELETED
E-BPILR.1.2. DELETED
E-BPILR.1.3. DELETED
E-BPILR.1.4. DELETED
Section D-BPILR: Decision on application for
indefinite leave to remain as a bereaved partner
D-BPILR.1.1. DELETED
D-BPILR.1.2. DELETED
D-BPILR.1.3. DELETED

Victim of domestic abuse
Section DVILR: Indefinite leave to remain
(settlement) as a victim of domestic abuse
DVILR.1.1. DELETED
Section E-DVILR: Eligibility for indefinite leave to
remain as a victim of domestic abuse
E-DVILR.1.1. DELETED
E-DVILR.1.2. DELETED
E-DVILR.1.3. DELETED
Section D-DVILR: Decision on application for
indefinite leave to remain as a victim of domestic
abuse
D-DVILR.1.1. DELETED
D-DVILR.1.2. DELETED
D-DVILR.1.3. DELETED

Family life as a child of a person with
limited leave as a partner, parent or
person with protection status in the UK
This route is for a child whose parent is applying for
entry clearance or leave, or who has limited leave, as a
partner or parent under this Appendix or has protection
status in the UK. For further provision on a child seeking
to enter or remain in the UK for the purpose of their
family life see Part 8 of these Rules.
Section EC-C: Entry clearance as a child
EC-C.1.1. The requirements to be met for entry
clearance as a child are that(a) the applicant must be outside the UK;
(b) the applicant must have made a valid application for
entry clearance as a child;
(c) the applicant must not fall for refusal under Section
S-EC: Suitability for entry clearance; and
(d) the applicant must meet all of the requirements of
Section E-ECC: Eligibility for entry clearance as a child.
Section E-ECC: Eligibility for entry clearance as a
child
E-ECC.1.1. To meet the eligibility requirements for entry
clearance as a child all of the requirements of
paragraphs E-ECC.A1.1. to 2.7. must be met.
E-ECC.A1.1. The applicant must provide a passport or
other document which satisfactorily establishes their
identity and nationality.
Relationship requirements
E-ECC.1.2. The applicant must be under the age of 18
at the date of application.
E-ECC.1.3. The applicant must not be married or in a
civil partnership.

E-ECC.1.4. The applicant must not have formed an
independent family unit.
E-ECC.1.5. The applicant must not be leading an
independent life.
E-ECC.1.6. One of the applicant’s parents must be in
the UK with limited leave to enter or remain, or be being
granted, or have been granted, entry clearance, as a
partner or a parent under this Appendix or have
protection status in the UK (referred to in this section as
the “applicant’s parent”), and
(a) the applicant’s parent’s partner under Appendix FM
is also a parent of the applicant; or
(b) the applicant’s parent has had and continues to have
sole responsibility for the child’s upbringing; or
(c) there are serious and compelling family or other
considerations which make exclusion of the child
undesirable and suitable arrangements have been
made for the child’s care.
Financial requirement for applicants where the
transitional requirements at E-ECC.2.5 to E-ECC.2.7.
do not apply
E-ECC.2.1. Where a parent of the applicant has, or is
applying or has applied for, entry clearance or limited
leave to enter or remain as a partner under this
Appendix or has protection status in the 4 UK, the
applicant must provide specified evidence, from the
sources listed in paragraph E-ECC.2.2., of:
(a) a specified gross annual income of at least
£29,000
(b) specified savings of:
(i) £16,000; and
(ii) additional savings of an amount equivalent to
2.5 times the amount which is the difference
between the gross annual income from the
sources listed in paragraph E-ECC.2.2.(a)- (f)
and the total amount required under paragraph
E-ECC.2.1.(a); or
(c) the requirements in paragraph E-ECC.2.3. being

met.
E-ECC.2.2. When determining whether the financial
requirement in paragraph E-ECC.2.1. or E-ECC.2.5. is
met only the following sources may be taken into
account(a) income of the parent with protection status in the UK
or the applicant’s parent’s partner from specified
employment or self-employment, which, in respect of an
applicant’s parent’s partner returning to the UK with the
applicant, can include specified employment or selfemployment overseas and in the UK;
(b) income of the applicant’s parent from specified
employment or self employment if they are in the UK
unless they are working illegally;
(c) specified pension income of the applicant’s parent
and that parent’s partner;
(d) any specified maternity allowance or bereavement
benefit received by the applicant’s parent and that
parent’s partner in the UK or any specified payment
relating to service in HM Forces received by the
applicant’s parent and that parent’s partner;
(e) other specified income of the applicant’s parent and
that parent’s partner;
(f) income from the sources at (b), (d) or (e) of a
dependent child of the applicant’s parent under
paragraph E-ECC.2.1. or E-ECC.2.5. who is aged 18
years or over; and
(g) specified savings of the applicant’s parent, that
parent’s partner and a dependent child of the applicant’s
parent under paragraph E-ECC.2.1. or E-ECC.2.5. who
is aged 18 years or over.
E-ECC.2.3. The requirements to be met under this
paragraph are(a) the applicant’s parent’s partner or the applicant’s
parent who has protection status in the UK must be
receiving one or more of the following:
(i) Disability Living Allowance; or
(ii) Severe Disablement Allowance; or
(iii) Industrial Injuries Disablement Benefit; or

(iv) Attendance Allowance; or
(v) Carer’s Allowance; or
(vi) Personal Independence Payment; or
(vii) Armed Forces Independence Payment or
Guaranteed Income Payment under the Armed
Forces Compensation Scheme; or
(viii) Constant Attendance Allowance, Mobility
Supplement or War Disablement Pension under the
War Pensions Scheme; or
(ix) Police Injury Pension; or
(x) Child Disability Payment (Scotland); or
(xi) Adult Disability Payment (Scotland); or
(xii) Carer’s Support Payment (Scotland); or
(xiii) Pension Age Disability Payment (Scotland); or
(xiv) Scottish Adult Disability Living Allowance
(Scotland); and
(b) the applicant must provide evidence that their
parent’s partner or parent with protection status in the
UK is able to maintain and accommodate themselves,
the applicant’s parent, the applicant and any
dependants adequately in the UK without recourse to
public funds.
E-ECC.2.3A. Where a parent of the applicant has, or is
applying or has applied for, entry clearance or limited
leave to enter or remain as a parent under this
Appendix, the applicant must provide evidence that that
parent is able to maintain and accommodate
themselves, the applicant and any other dependants
adequately in the UK without recourse to public funds.
E-ECC.2.4. The applicant must provide evidence that
there will be adequate accommodation, without
recourse to public funds, for the family, including other
family members who are not included in the application
but who live in the same household, which the family
own or occupy exclusively: accommodation will not be
regarded as adequate if(a) it is, or will be, overcrowded; or
(b) it contravenes public health regulations.

Transitional financial requirements
E-ECC.2.5. Where a parent of the applicant has, or is
applying or has applied for, entry clearance or limited
leave to enter or limited leave to remain as a partner
under this Appendix, and that parent meets the
requirements of E-LTRP.3.5. the applicant must provide
specified evidence, from the sources listed in paragraph
E-ECC.2.2., of:
(a) a specified gross annual income of at least
(i) £18,600;
(ii) an additional £3,800 for the first child; and
(iii)an additional £2,400 for each additional child;
alone or in combination with
(b) specified savings of
(i) £16,000; and
(ii) additional savings of an amount equivalent to
2.5 times the amount which is the difference
between the gross annual income from the
sources listed in paragraph E-ECC.2.2.(a)- (f)
and the total amount required under paragraph
E-ECC.2.5.(a); or
(c) the requirements in paragraph E-ECC.2.3. being
met.
In this paragraph “child” means the applicant and any
other dependent child of the applicant’s parent or the
applicant’s parent’s partner who is:
(a) under the age of 18 years, or who was under the
age of 18 years when they were first granted entry
under this route;
(b) applying for entry clearance as a dependant of
the applicant’s parent or of the applicant’s parent’s
partner, or is in the UK with leave as their
dependant;
(c) not a British Citizen, settled in the UK, or in the
UK with valid limited leave to enter or remain
granted under paragraph EU3 or EU3A of Appendix
EU to these Rules; and
(d) not an EEA national with a right to be admitted to
or reside in the UK under the Immigration (European

Economic Area) Regulations 2016.
E-ECC.2.6. Where the financial requirement at EECC.2.5. exceeds £29,000 due to the number of
children in the family, the applicant will only need to
provide evidence of a gross annual income of £29,000.
E-ECC.2.7. The applicant must meet the
accommodation requirement at E-ECC.2.4.
Section D-ECC: Decision on application for entry
clearance as a child
D-ECC.1.1. If the applicant meets the requirements for
entry clearance as a child, they will be granted entry
clearance of a duration which will expire at the same
time as the leave granted to the applicant’s parent
under Appendix FM or the parent with protection status
in the UK (where their other parent does not have, and
is not being granted, leave under this Appendix). They
will be subject to the same conditions in respect of
recourse to public funds as that parent.
D-ECC.1.1A. Where paragraph GEN 3.2(3) applies but
the applicant does not meet the suitability paragraphs
SUI 2.1., SUI 2.3., SUI 3.1., SUI 4.1., SUI 5.1. in Part
Suitability, the application on Appendix FM will be
refused.
D-ECC.1.2. If the applicant does not meet the
requirements for entry clearance as a child the
application will be refused.
Section R-LTRC: Requirements for leave to remain
as a child
R-LTRC.1.1. The requirements to be met for leave to
remain as a child are that(a) the applicant must be in the UK;
(b) the applicant must have made a valid application for
leave to remain as a child; and either
(c)
(i) the applicant must not fall for refusal under

Section S- LTR: Suitability-leave to remain; and
(ii) the applicant meets all of the requirements of
Section E-LTRC: Eligibility for leave to remain as a
child; and
(iii) unless the applicant’s parent has protection
status in the UK a parent of the applicant has been
or is at the same time being granted leave to remain
under paragraph D-LTRP.1.1. or D-LTRPT.1.1. or
indefinite leave to remain under this Appendix; or
(d)
(i) the applicant must not fall for refusal under
Section S- LTR: Suitability-leave to remain; and
(ii) the applicant meets the requirements of
paragraphs E-LTRC.1.2.-1.6.; and
(iii) “unless the applicant’s parent has protection
status, a parent of the applicant has been or is at the
same time being granted leave to remain under
paragraph D-LTRP.1.2., D-ILRP.1.2., D-LTRPT.1.2.
or D-ILRPT.1.2. or indefinite leave to remain under
this Appendix.
Section E-LTRC: Eligibility for leave to remain as a
child
E-LTRC.1.1. To qualify for limited leave to remain as a
child all of the requirements of paragraphs E-LTRC.1.2.
to 2.7. must be met (except where paragraph RLTRC.1.1.(d)(ii) applies).
Relationship requirements
E-LTRC.1.2. The applicant must be under the age of 18
at the date of application or when first granted leave as
a child under this route.
E-LTRC.1.3. The applicant must not be married or in a
civil partnership.
E-LTRC.1.4. The applicant must not have formed an
independent family unit.
E-LTRC.1.5. The applicant must not be leading an
independent life.

E-LTRC.1.6. One of the applicant’s parents (referred to
in this section as the “applicant’s parent”) must be in the
UK and have leave to enter or remain or indefinite leave
to remain, or is at the same time being granted leave to
remain or indefinite leave to remain, under this
Appendix, or must have protection status in the UK and
(a) the applicant’s parent’s partner under Appendix FM
is also a parent of the applicant; or
(b) the applicant’s parent has had and continues to have
sole responsibility for the child’s upbringing or the
applicant normally lives with this parent and not their
other parent; or
(c) there are serious and compelling family or other
considerations which make exclusion of the child
undesirable and suitable arrangements have been
made for the child’s care.
Financial requirements for applicants where the
transitional requirements at E-LTRC.2.5. to ELTRC.2.7. do not apply
E-LTRC.2.1. Where a parent of the applicant has, or is
applying or has applied for, limited leave to remain as a
partner under this Appendix or has protection status in
the UK, the applicant must provide specified evidence,
from the sources listed in paragraph E-LTRC.2.2., of:
(a) a specified gross annual income of at least
£29,000
(b) specified savings of:
(i) £16,000; and
(ii) additional savings of an amount equivalent to
2.5 times (or if the parent is applying for
indefinite leave to remain 1 times) the amount
which is the difference between the gross annual
income from the sources listed in paragraph ELTRC.2.2.(a)-(f) and the total amount required
under paragraph E-LTRC.2.1.(a); or
(c) the requirements in paragraph E-LTRC.2.3.
being met.
E-LTRC.2.2. When determining whether the financial
requirement in paragraph E-LTRC.2.1. or E-LTRC.2.5. is

met only the following sources may be taken into
account(a) income of the applicant’s parents with protection
status in the UK or the applicant’s parent’s partner from
specified employment or self-employment;
(b) income of the applicant’s parent from specified
employment or self employment;
(c) specified pension income of the applicant’s parent
and that parent’s partner;
(d) any specified maternity allowance or bereavement
benefit received by the applicant’s parent and that
parent’s partner in the UK or any specified payment
relating to service in HM Forces received by the
applicant’s parent and that parent’s partner;
(e) other specified income of the applicant’s parent and
that parent’s partner;
(f) income from the sources at (b), (d) or (e) of a
dependent child of the applicant’s parent under
paragraph E-LTRC.2.1. or E-LTRC.2.5. who is aged 18
years or over; and
(g) specified savings of the applicant’s parent, that
parent’s partner and a dependent child of the applicant’s
parent under paragraph E-ECC.2.1. who is aged 18
years or over.
E-LTRC.2.3. The requirements to be met under this
paragraph are(a) the applicant’s parent’s partner or the applicant’s
parent who has protection status in the UK must be
receiving one or more of the following:
(i) Disability Living Allowance; or
(ii) Severe Disablement Allowance; or
(iii) Industrial Injuries Disablement Benefit; or
(iv) Attendance Allowance; or
(v) Carer’s Allowance; or
(vi) Personal Independence Payment; or
(vii) Armed Forces Independence Payment or
Guaranteed Income Payment under the Armed
Forces Compensation Scheme; or

(viii) Constant Attendance Allowance, Mobility
Supplement or War Disablement Pension under the
War Pensions Scheme; or
(ix) Police Injury Pension; or
(x) Child Disability Payment Scotland); or
(xi) Adult Disability Payment (Scotland); or
(xii) Carer’s Support Payment (Scotland); or
(xiii) Pension Age Disability Payment (Scotland); or
(xiv) Scottish Adult Disability Living Allowance
(Scotland); and
(b) the applicant must provide evidence that their
parent’s partner or their parent with protection status in
the UK is able to maintain and accommodate
themselves, the applicant’s parent, the applicant and
any dependants adequately in the UK without recourse
to public funds.
E-LTRC.2.3A. Where a parent of the applicant has, or is
applying or has applied for, limited leave to remain as a
parent under this Appendix, the applicant must provide
evidence that that parent is able to maintain and
accommodate themselves, the applicant and any other
dependants adequately in the UK without recourse to
public funds.
E-LTRC.2.4. The applicant must provide evidence that
there will be adequate accommodation in the UK,
without recourse to public funds, for the family, including
other family members who are not included in the
application but who live in the same household, which
the family own or occupy exclusively: accommodation
will not be regarded as adequate if(a) it is, or will be, overcrowded; or
(b) it contravenes public health regulations.
Transitional financial requirements
E-LTRC.2.5. Where a parent of the applicant has, or is
applying or has applied for, entry clearance or leave to
enter or limited leave to remain as a partner under this
Appendix, and that parent meets the requirements of ELTRP.3.5. the applicant must provide specified

evidence, from the sources listed in paragraph ELTRC.2.2., of:
(a) a specified gross annual income of at least:
(i) £18,600;
(ii) an additional £3,800 for the first child; and
(iii)an additional £2,400 for each additional child;
alone or in combination with
(b) specified savings of:
(i) £16,000; and
(ii) additional savings of an amount equivalent to
2.5 times (or if the parent is applying for
indefinite leave to remain 1 times) the amount
which is the difference between the gross annual
income from the sources listed in paragraph ELTRC.2.2.(a)-(f) and the total amount required
under paragraph E-LTRC.2.5.(a); or
(c) the requirements in paragraph E-LTRC.2.3.
being met.
In this paragraph “child” means the applicant and any
other dependent child of the applicant’s parent or the
applicant’s parent’s partner who is:
(a) under the age of 18 years, or who was under the
age of 18 years when they were first granted entry
under this route;
(b) applying for entry clearance as a dependant of
the applicant’s parent or of the applicant’s parent’s
partner, or is in the UK with leave as their
dependant;
(c) not a British Citizen, settled in the UK, or in the
UK with valid limited leave to enter or remain
granted under paragraph EU3 or EU3A of Appendix
EU to these Rules; and
(d) not an EEA national with a right to be admitted to
or reside in the UK under the Immigration (European
Economic Area) Regulations 2016.
E-LTRC.2.6. Where the financial requirement at ELTRC.2.5. exceeds £29,000 due to the number of
children in the family, the applicant will only need to
provide evidence of a gross annual income of £29,000.

E-LTRC.2.7. The applicant must meet the
accommodation requirement at E-LTRC.2.4.
Section D-LTRC: Decision on application for leave
to remain as a child
D-LTRC.1.1. If the applicant meets the requirements for
leave to remain as a child the applicant will be granted
leave to remain, either:
(a) of a duration which will expire at the same time as
the limited leave 5 granted to the applicant’s parent
under Appendix FM or the parent with protection status
in the UK (where their other parent does not have, and
is not being granted, leave under this Appendix). They
will be subject to the same conditions in respect of
recourse to public funds as that parent; or
(b) 30 months, where a parent is settled but the child
does not qualify for settlement, subject to the following
conditions:
(i) no recourse to public funds unless the decisionmaker considers, with reference to paragraph
GEN.1.11A., that the applicant should not be subject to
such a condition; and
(ii) study is permitted, subject to the ATAS condition in
Appendix ATAS if the applicant is aged 18 or over.
To qualify for indefinite leave to remain as a child of a
person with indefinite leave to remain as a partner or
parent, the applicant must meet the requirements of
Appendix Settlement Family Life if applying as a
dependent of a partner or parent who is applying under
that Appendix, otherwise the applicant must meet the
requirements of paragraph 298 of these rules.
D-LTRC.1.1A. Where paragraph GEN 3.2(3) applies but
the applicant does not meet the suitability paragraphs
SUI 2.1., SUI 3.1., SUI 4.1., SUI 5.1. in Part Suitability,
the application on Appendix FM will be refused.
D-LTRC.1.2. If the applicant does not meet the
requirements for leave to remain as a child the
application will be refused.

Family life as a parent of a child in the
UK
Section EC-PT: Entry clearance as a parent of a
child in the UK
EC-PT.1.1. The requirements to be met for entry
clearance as a parent are that(a) the applicant must be outside the UK;
(b) the applicant must have made a valid application for
entry clearance as a parent;
(c) the applicant must not fall for refusal under Section
S-EC: Suitability–entry clearance; and
(d) the applicant must meet all of the requirements of
Section E-ECPT: Eligibility for entry clearance as a
parent.
Section E-ECPT: Eligibility for entry clearance as a
parent
E-ECPT.1.1. To meet the eligibility requirements for
entry clearance as a parent all of the requirements in
paragraphs E-ECPT.A1.1. to 4.2. must be met.
E-ECPT.A1.1. The applicant must provide a passport or
other document which satisfactorily establishes their
identity and nationality.
Relationship requirements
E-ECPT.2.1. The applicant must be aged 18 years or
over.
E-ECPT.2.2. The child of the applicant must be(a) under the age of 18 years at the date of application;
(b) living in the UK; and
(c) a British Citizen, settled in the UK, or in the UK with
limited leave under Appendix EU in accordance with
paragraph GEN.1.3.(d).

E-ECPT.2.3. Either (a) the applicant must have sole parental responsibility
for the child; or
(b) the parent or carer with whom the child normally
lives must be(i) a British Citizen in the UK, settled in the UK, or in
the UK with limited leave under Appendix EU in
accordance with paragraph GEN.1.3.(d);
(ii) not the partner of the applicant; and
(iii) the applicant must not be eligible to apply for
entry clearance as a partner under this Appendix.
E -ECPT.2.4.
(a) The applicant must provide evidence that they have
either(i) sole parental responsibility for the child; or
(ii) direct access (in person) to the child, as agreed
with the parent or carer with whom the child
normally lives or as ordered by a court in the UK;
and
(b) The applicant must provide evidence that they are
taking, and intend to continue to take, an active role in
the child’s upbringing.
Financial requirements
E-ECPT.3.1. The applicant must provide evidence that
they will be able to adequately maintain and
accommodate themselves and any dependants in the
UK without recourse to public funds
E-ECPT.3.2. The applicant must provide evidence that
there will be adequate accommodation in the UK,
without recourse to public funds, for the family, including
other family members who are not included in the
application but who live in the same household, which
the family own or occupy exclusively: accommodation
will not be regarded as adequate if(a) it is, or will be, overcrowded; or
(b) it contravenes public health regulations.

English language requirement
E-ECPT.4.1. The applicant must provide specified
evidence that they(a) are a national of a majority English speaking country
listed in paragraph GEN.1.6.;
(b) have passed an English language test in speaking
and listening at a minimum of level A1 of the Common
European Framework of Reference for Languages with
a provider approved by the Secretary of State;
(c) have an academic qualification which is either a
Bachelor’s or Master’s degree or PhD awarded by an
educational establishment in the UK; or, if awarded by
an educational establishment outside the UK, is
deemed by the qualification and language assessments
provider to meet or exceed the recognised standard of a
Bachelor’s or Master’s degree or PhD in the UK, and
the qualification and language assessments provider
has confirmed that the degree was taught or researched
in English to level A1 of the Common European
Framework of Reference for Languages or above; or
(d) are exempt from the English language requirement
under paragraph E-ECPT.4.2.
E-ECPT.4.2. The applicant is exempt from the English
language requirement if at the date of application(a) the applicant is aged 65 or over;
(b) the applicant has a disability (physical or mental
condition) which prevents the applicant from meeting
the requirement; or
(c) there are exceptional circumstances which prevent
the applicant from being able to meet the requirement
prior to entry to the UK.
Section D-ECPT: Decision on application for entry
clearance as a parent
D-ECPT.1.1. If the applicant meets the requirements for
entry clearance as a parent (except where paragraph
GEN.3.2.(3) applies), the applicant will be granted entry
clearance for an initial period not exceeding 33 months,

and subject to a condition of no recourse to public
funds, and they will be eligible to apply for settlement
after a continuous period of at least 60 months in the
UK with leave to enter granted on the basis of such
entry clearance or with limited leave to remain as a
parent granted under paragraph D-LTRPT.1.1.
D-ECPT.1.2. Unless D-ECPT.1.2A. applies, if paragraph
GEN.3.2.(3) applies to an applicant for entry clearance
as a parent, the applicant will be granted entry
clearance for an initial period not exceeding 33 months,
and subject to a condition of no recourse to public funds
unless the decision-maker considers, with reference to
paragraph GEN.1.11A., that the person should not be
subject to such a condition, and they will be eligible to
apply for settlement after a continuous period of at least
120 months in the UK with leave to enter granted on the
basis of such entry clearance or of entry clearance
granted under paragraph D-ECPT.1.1. or with limited
leave to remain as a parent granted under paragraph DLTRPT.1.1. or D-LTRPT.1.2.
D-ECPT.1.2A. Where paragraph GEN 3.2.(3) applies
but the applicant does not meet the suitability
paragraphs SUI 2.1., SUI 2.3., SUI 3.1., SUI 4.1., SUI
5.1., in Part Suitability, the application on Appendix FM
will be refused.
D-ECPT.1.3. If the applicant does not meet the
requirements for entry clearance as a parent, the
application will be refused.
Section R-LTRPT: Requirements for limited leave to
remain as a parent
R-LTRPT.1.1. The requirements to be met for limited
leave to remain as a parent are(a) the applicant and the child must be in the UK;
(b) the applicant must have made a valid application for
limited or indefinite leave to remain as a parent or
partner; and either
(c)
(i) the applicant must not fall for refusal under
Section S-LTR: Suitability leave to remain; and

(ii) the applicant meets all of the requirements of
Section ELTRPT: Eligibility for leave to remain as a
parent, or
(d)
(i) the applicant must not fall for refusal under SLTR: Suitability leave to remain; and
(ii) the applicant meets the requirements of
paragraphs E-LTRPT.2.2-2.4. and E-LTRPT.3.1-3.2.;
and
(iii) paragraph EX.1. applies.
Section E-LTRPT: Eligibility for limited leave to
remain as a parent
E-LTRPT.1.1. To qualify for limited leave to remain as a
parent all of the requirements of paragraphs ELTRPT.2.2. to 5.2. must be met.
Relationship requirements
E-LTRPT.2.2. The child of the applicant must be(a) under the age of 18 years at the date of application,
or where the child has turned 18 years of age since the
applicant was first granted entry clearance or leave to
remain as a parent under this Appendix, must not have
formed an independent family unit or be leading an
independent life;
(b) living in the UK; and
(c) a British Citizen, settled in the UK, or in the UK with
limited leave under Appendix EU in accordance with
paragraph GEN.1.3.(d); or
(d) has lived in the UK continuously for at least the 7
years immediately preceding the date of application and
paragraph EX.1. applies.
E-LTRPT.2.3. Either(a) the applicant must have sole parental responsibility
for the child or the child normally lives with the applicant
and not their other parent (who is a British Citizen,
settled in the UK, or in the UK with limited leave under

Appendix EU in accordance with paragraph GEN.1.3.
(d)), and the applicant must not be eligible to apply for
leave to remain as a partner under this Appendix; or
(b) the parent or carer with whom the child normally
lives must be(i) a British Citizen in the UK, settled in the UK, or in
the UK with limited leave under Appendix EU in
accordance with paragraph GEN.1.3.(d).;
(ii) not the partner of the applicant (which here
includes a person who has been in a relationship
with the applicant for less than two years prior to the
date of application); and
(iii) the applicant must not be eligible to apply for
leave to remain as a partner under this Appendix.
E-LTRPT.2.4.
(a) The applicant must provide evidence that they have
either(i) sole parental responsibility for the child, or that
the child normally lives with them; or
(ii) direct access (in person) to the child, as agreed
with the parent or carer with whom the child
normally lives or as ordered by a court in the UK;
and
(b) The applicant must provide evidence that they are
taking, and intend to continue to take, an active role in
the child’s upbringing.
Immigration status requirement
E-LTRPT.3.1. The applicant must not be in the UK(a) as a visitor; or
(b) with valid leave granted for a period of 6 months or
less, unless that leave was granted pending the
outcome of family court or divorce proceedings;
E-LTRPT.3.2. The applicant must not be in the UK –
(a) on immigration bail, unless:
(i) the Secretary of State is satisfied that the
applicant arrived in the UK more than 6 months

prior to the date of application; and
(ii) paragraph EX.1. applies; or
(b) in breach of immigration laws (except that, where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, any current period of overstaying
will be disregarded), unless paragraph EX.1.
applies.
Financial requirements
E-LTRPT.4.1. The applicant must provide evidence that
they will be able to adequately maintain and
accommodate themselves and any dependants in the
UK without recourse to public funds, unless paragraph
EX.1. applies.
E-LTRPT.4.2. The applicant must provide evidence that
there will be adequate accommodation in the UK,
without recourse to public funds, for the family, including
other family members who are not included in the
application but who live in the same household, which
the family own or occupy exclusively, unless paragraph
EX.1. applies: accommodation will not be regarded as
adequate if(a) it is, or will be, overcrowded; or
(b) it contravenes public health regulations.
English language requirement
E-LTRPT.5.1. If the applicant has not met the
requirement in a previous application for entry clearance
or leave to remain as a parent or partner, the applicant
must provide specified evidence that they(a) are a national of a majority English speaking country
listed in paragraph GEN.1.6.;
(b) have passed an English language test in speaking
and listening at a minimum of level A1 of the Common
European Framework of Reference for Languages with
a provider approved by the Secretary of State;
(c) have an academic qualification which is either a
Bachelor’s or Master’s degree or PhD awarded by an

educational establishment in the UK; or, if awarded by
an educational establishment outside the UK, is
deemed by the qualification and language assessments
provider to meet or exceed the recognised standard of a
Bachelor’s or Master’s degree or PhD in the UK, and
the qualification and language assessments provider
has confirmed that the degree was taught or researched
in English to level A1 of the Common European
Framework of Reference for Languages or above; or
(d) are exempt from the English language requirement
under paragraph E-LTRPT.5.2.;
unless paragraph EX.1. applies.
E-LTRPT.5.1A. Where the applicant:
(i) in a previous application for entry clearance or leave
to remain as a parent or partner, met the English
language requirement in paragraph E-ECP.4.1.(b), ELTRP.4.1.(b), E-ECPT.4.1.(b) or E-LTRPT.5.1.(b) on the
basis that they had passed an English language test in
speaking and listening at level A1 of the Common
European Framework of Reference for Languages; and
(ii) was granted entry clearance or leave to remain as a
parent or partner; and
(iii) now seeks further leave to remain as a parent after
30 months in the UK with leave as a parent; then, the
applicant must provide specified evidence that they:
(a) are a national of a majority English speaking
country listed in paragraph GEN.1.6.;
(b) have passed an English language test in
speaking and listening at a minimum of level A2 of
the Common European Framework of Reference for
Languages with a provider approved by the
Secretary of State;
(c) have an academic qualification which is either a
Bachelor’s or Master’s degree or PhD awarded by
an educational establishment in the UK; or, if
awarded by an educational establishment outside
the UK, is deemed by the qualification and language
assessments provider to be equivalent to the
standard of a Bachelor’s or Master’s degree or PhD
in the UK, and the qualification and language
assessments provider has confirmed that the degree
was taught or researched in English to level A2 of

the Common European Framework of Reference for
Languages or above; or
(d) are exempt from the English language
requirement under paragraph E-LTRPT.5.2.;
unless paragraph EX.1. applies.
E-LTRPT.5.2. The applicant is exempt from the English
language requirement in paragraph E-LTRPT.5.1. or ELTRPT.5.1A. if at the date of application(a) the applicant is aged 65 or over;
(b) the applicant has a disability (physical or mental
condition) which prevents the applicant from meeting
the requirement; or
(c) there are exceptional circumstances which prevent
the applicant from being able to meet the requirement.
Section D-LTRPT: Decision on application for limited
leave to remain as a parent
D-LTRPT.1.1. If the applicant meets the requirements in
paragraph R-LTRPT.1.1.(a) to (c) for limited leave to
remain as a parent the applicant will be granted limited
leave to remain for a period not exceeding 30 months,
and subject to a condition of no recourse to public
funds, and they will be eligible to apply for settlement
after a continuous period of at least 60 months with
such leave or in the UK with leave to enter granted on
the basis of entry clearance as a parent granted under
paragraph D-ECPT.1.1.
D-LTRPT.1.2. Unless D-LTRPT.1.2A. applies, if the
applicant meets the requirements in paragraph RLTRPT.1.1.(a), (b) and (d) for limited leave to remain as
a parent, or paragraph GEN.3.2.(3) applies to an
applicant for leave to remain as a parent, the applicant
will be granted leave to remain for a period not
exceeding 30 months and subject to a condition of no
recourse to public funds unless the decision-maker
considers, with reference to paragraph GEN.1.11A., that
the applicant should not be subject to such a condition,
and they will be eligible to apply for settlement after a
continuous period of at least 120 months in the UK with
such leave, with limited leave to remain as a parent

granted under paragraph D-LTRPT.1.1., or in the UK
with leave to enter granted on the basis of entry
clearance as a parent granted under paragraph DECPT.1.1. or D-ECPT.1.2.
D-LTRPT.1.2A. Where paragraph GEN 3.2(3) applies
but the applicant does not meet the suitability
paragraphs SUI 2.1., SUI 3.1., SUI 4.1., SUI 5.1. in Part
Suitability, the application on Appendix FM will be
refused.
D-LTRPT.1.3. If the applicant does not meet the
requirements for limited leave to remain as a parent the
application will be refused.
Section R-ILRPT: Requirements for indefinite leave
to remain (settlement) as a parent
R-ILRPT.1.1. The requirements to be met for indefinite
leave to remain as a parent after a 5 year qualifying
period are that:
(a) the applicant must be in the UK; and
(b) the applicant must have made a valid application for
indefinite leave to remain as a parent; and
(c) the applicant must not fall for refusal under Section
S-ILR: Suitability-indefinite leave to remain; and
(d) the applicant must meet all of the requirements of
Section E-ILRPT: Eligibility for indefinite leave to remain
as a parent.
Section E-ILRPT: Eligibility for indefinite leave to
remain as a parent
E-ILRPT.1.1. To meet the eligibility requirements for
indefinite leave to remain as a parent all of the
requirements of paragraphs E-ILRPT.1.2. to 1.5. must
be met.
E-ILRPT.1.2. The applicant must be in the UK with valid
leave to remain as a parent under this Appendix (except
that, where the Exceptions for overstayers section of
Part Suitability applies, any current period of
overstaying will be disregarded).

E-ILRPT.1.3(1) The applicant must, at the date of
application, have completed a continuous period of
residence of at least 5 years (60 months) with the
following:
(a) leave to enter granted on the basis of entry
clearance as a parent granted under paragraph DECPT.1.1.; or
(b) limited leave to remain as a parent granted under
paragraph D-LTRPT.1.1.; or
(c) a combination of leave under (a) and (b).
(1A) In respect of an application falling within
subparagraph (1) above, the applicant must meet all of
the requirements of Section E-LTRPT: Eligibility for
leave to remain as a parent (except that paragraph ELTRPT.2.2.(c) cannot be met on the basis of a person
being in the UK with limited leave under Appendix EU in
accordance with paragraph GEN.1.3.(d)).
(1B) DELETED
E-ILRPT.1.4. DELETED.
E-ILRPT.1.5. The applicant must have demonstrated
sufficient knowledge of the English language and
sufficient knowledge about life in the United Kingdom in
accordance with the requirements of Appendix KoLL of
these Rules.
E-ILRPT.1.5A. In calculating the periods under
paragraph E-ILRPT.1.3., any current period of
overstaying will be disregarded where the Exceptions
for overstayers section of Part Suitability applies. Any
previous period of overstaying between periods of leave
will also be disregarded where: the further application
was made before 24 November 2016 and within 28
days of the expiry of leave; or the further application
was made on or after 24 November 2016 and the
Exceptions for overstayers section of Part Suitability
applied.
Section D-ILRPT: Decision on application for
indefinite leave to remain as a parent
D-ILRPT.1.1. If the applicant meets all of the

requirements for indefinite leave to remain as a parent
the applicant will be granted indefinite leave to remain.
D-ILRPT.1.2. If the applicant does not meet the
requirements for indefinite leave to remain as a parent
as they have not demonstrated sufficient knowledge of
the English language or about life in the United
Kingdom in accordance with Appendix KoLL, subject to
compliance with any requirement notified under
paragraph GEN.1.15.(b), the applicant will be granted
further limited leave to remain as a partner for a period
not exceeding 30 months, and subject to a condition of
no recourse to public funds.
D-ILRPT.1.3. If the applicant does not meet all the
eligibility requirements for indefinite leave to remain as a
parent, and does not qualify for further limited leave to
remain under paragraph D-ILRPT.1.2. or DLTRPT.1.2A., the application will be refused, unless the
applicant meets the requirements in paragraph RLTRPT.1.1.(a), (b) and (d) for limited leave to remain as
a parent. Where they do, and subject to compliance with
any requirement notified under paragraph GEN.1.15.(b),
the applicant will be granted further limited leave to
remain as a parent for a period not exceeding 30
months under paragraph D-LTRPT.1.2. and subject to a
condition of no recourse to public funds unless the
Secretary of State considers that the person should not
be subject to such a condition.

Adult dependent relative
Section EC-DR: Entry clearance as an adult
dependent relative
EC-DR.1.1. DELETED.
Section E-ECDR: Eligibility for entry clearance as an
adult dependent relative
E-ECDR.1.1. DELETED.
Relationship requirements
E-ECDR.2.1. DELETED

E-ECDR.2.2. DELETED.
E-ECDR.2.3. DELETED.
E-ECDR.2.4. DELETED.
E-ECDR.2.5. DELETED.
Financial requirements
E-ECDR.3.1. DELETED.
E-ECDR.3.2. DELETED.
Section D-ECDR: Decision on application for entry
clearance as an adult dependent relative
D-ECDR.1.1. DELETED.
D-ECDR.1.2. DELETED.
D-ECDR.1.3. DELETED.
Section R-ILRDR: Requirements for indefinite leave
to remain as an adult dependent relative
R-ILRDR.1.1. DELETED.
Section E-ILRDR: Eligibility for indefinite leave to
remain as an adult dependent relative
E-ILRDR.1.1. DELETED.
E-ILRDR.1.2. DELETED.
E-ILRDR.1.3. DELETED.
E-ILRDR.1.4. DELETED.
E-ILRDR.1.5. DELETED.
Section D-ILRDR: Decision on application for
indefinite leave to remain as an adult dependent

relative
D-ILRDR.1.1. DELETED.
D-ILRDR.1.2. DELETED.
D-ILRDR.1.3. DELETED.
D-ILRDR.1.4. DELETED.

Deportation and removal
Where the Secretary of State or an immigration officer is
considering deportation or removal of a person who
claims that their deportation or removal from the UK
would be a breach of the right to respect for private and
family life under Article 8 of the Human Rights
Convention that person may be required to make an
application under this Appendix or Appendix Private
Life, but if they are not required to make an application
Part 13 of these Rules will apply.

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

© Crown copyright

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix FM-SE: family
members specified evidence
Family members - specified evidence

Family Members - Specified Evidence
A. This Appendix sets out the specified evidence
applicants need to provide to meet the requirements of
rules contained in Appendix FM and, where those
requirements are also contained in other rules, including
Appendix HM Armed Forces, Appendix International
Armed Forces and International Civilian Employees,
Appendix Adult Dependent Relative, Appendix Adoption
and Appendix Child Relative (Sponsors with Protection),
and Appendix Adoption, and unless otherwise stated,
the specified evidence applicants need to provide to
meet the requirements of those rules.
B. Where evidence is not specified by Appendix FM, but
is of a type covered by this Appendix, the requirements
of this Appendix shall apply.
C. In this Appendix references to paragraphs are to

paragraphs of this Appendix unless the context
otherwise requires.
D. (a) In deciding an application in relation to which this
Appendix states that specified documents must be
provided, the Entry Clearance Officer or Secretary of
State (“the decision-maker”) will consider documents
that have been submitted with the application, and will
only consider documents submitted after the application
where sub-paragraph (b), (e) or (f) applies.
(b) If the applicant:
(i) Has submitted:
(aa) A sequence of documents and some of
the documents in the sequence have been
omitted (e.g. if one bank statement from a
series is missing);
(bb) A document in the wrong format (for
example, if a letter is not on letterhead paper
as specified); or
(cc) DELETED
(dd) A document which does not contain all
of the specified information; or
(ii) Has not submitted a specified document, the
decision-maker may contact the applicant or his
representative in writing or otherwise, and
request the document(s) or the correct
version(s). The material requested must be
received at the address specified in the request
within a reasonable timescale specified in the
request.
(c) The decision-maker will not request documents
where he or she does not anticipate that addressing
the error or omission referred to in sub-paragraph
(b) will lead to a grant because the application will
be refused for other reasons.
(d) If the applicant has submitted:
(i) A document in the wrong format; or
(ii) DELETED
(iii) A document that does not contain all of the
specified information, but the missing information
is verifiable from:

(1) other documents submitted with the
application,
(2) the website of the organisation which
issued the document, or
(3) the website of the appropriate regulatory
body,
the application may be granted exceptionally,
providing the decision-maker is satisfied that the
document(s) is genuine and that the applicant meets
the requirement to which the document relates.
(e) Where the decision-maker is satisfied that there
is a valid reason why a specified document(s)
cannot be supplied, e.g. because it is not issued in a
particular country or has been permanently lost, he
or she may exercise discretion not to apply the
requirement for the document(s) or to request
alternative or additional information or document(s)
be submitted by the applicant.
(f) Before making a decision under Appendix FM or
this Appendix, the decision-maker may contact the
applicant or their representative in writing or
otherwise to request further information or
documents. The material requested must be
received at the address specified in the request
within a reasonable timescale specified in the
request.
E. A reference in this Appendix to the provision of
evidence from a UK government department includes
evidence from a body performing an equivalent function
to such a department.
Evidence of Financial Requirements under
Appendix FM
A1. To meet the financial requirement under paragraphs
E-ECP.3.1., E-LTRP.3.1., E-LTRP.3.7., E-ECC.2.1., EECC.2.5., E-LTRC.2.1. and E-LTRC.2.5. of Appendix
FM, the applicant must meet:
(a) The level of financial requirement applicable to
the application under Appendix FM; and
(b) The requirements specified in Appendix FM and
this Appendix as to:

(i) The permitted sources of income and savings;
(ii) The time periods and permitted combinations
of sources applicable to each permitted source
relied upon; and
(iii)The evidence required for each permitted
source relied upon.
1. In relation to evidencing the financial requirements in
Appendix FM, Appendix HM Armed Forces, Appendix
International Armed Forces and International Civilian
Employees, Appendix Adult Dependent Relative,
Appendix Adoption and Appendix Child Relative
(Sponsors with Protection), the following general
provisions shall apply:
(a) Bank statements must:
(i) be from a financial institution to which
Appendix Finance applies.
(ii) DELETED.
(iii) in relation to personal bank statements be
only in the name of:
(1) the applicant’s partner, the applicant or
both as appropriate; or
(2) if the applicant is a child the applicant
parent’s partner, the applicant’s parent or
both as appropriate; or
(3) if the applicant is an adult dependent
relative, the applicant’s sponsor or the
applicant, unless otherwise stated.
(iv) cover the period(s) specified.
(v) be:
(1) on official bank stationery; or
(2) electronic bank statements which are
either accompanied by a letter from the bank
on its headed stationery confirming that the
documents are authentic or which bear the
official stamp of the issuing bank on every
page.
(aa) Where a bank statement is specified in this
Appendix, a building society statement, a building
society pass book, a letter from the applicant’s bank
or building society, or a letter from a financial

institution regulated by the Financial Conduct
Authority and the Prudential Regulation Authority or,
for overseas accounts, the appropriate regulatory
body for the country in which the institution operates
and the funds are located, may be submitted as an
alternative to a bank statement(s) provided that:
(1) the requirements in paragraph 1(a)(i)-(iv) are
met as if the document were a bank statement;
and
(2) a building society pass book must clearly
show:
(i) the account number;
(ii) the building society’s name and logo; and
(iii) the information required on transactions,
funds held and time period(s) or as otherwise
specified in this Appendix in relation to bank
statements; and/or
(3) a letter must be on the headed stationery of
the bank, building society or other financial
institution and must clearly show:
(i) the account number,
(ii) the date of the letter;
(iii) the financial institution’s name and logo;
and
(iv) the information required on transactions,
funds held and time period(s) or as otherwise
specified in this Appendix in relation to bank
statements.
(b) Promises of third party support will not be
accepted, except in the limited circumstances set
out in paragraph 21A (and to the extent permitted by
that paragraph). Existing sources of third party
support will be accepted in the form of:
(i) payments from a former partner of the
applicant for the maintenance of the applicant or
any children of the applicant and the former
partner, and payments from a former partner of
the applicant’s partner for the maintenance of
that partner;
(ii) income from a dependent child who has
turned 18, remains in the same UK household as

the applicant and continues to be counted
towards the financial requirement under
Appendix FM;
(iii) gift of cash savings (whose source must be
declared) evidenced at paragraph 1(a)(iii),
provided that the cash savings have been held
by the person or persons at paragraph 1(a)(iii)
for at least 6 months prior to the date of
application and are under their control; and
(iv) a maintenance grant or stipend associated
with undergraduate study or postgraduate study
or research.
(bb) Payslips must be:
(i) formal payslips issued by the employer and
showing the employer’s name; or
(ii) accompanied by a letter from the employer,
on the employer’s headed paper and signed by a
senior official, confirming the payslips are
authentic;
(c) The employment or self employment income of
an applicant will be taken into account if they are in
the UK, aged 18 years or over and working legally,
and prospective employment income will not be
taken into account (except that of an applicant’s
partner or parent’s partner who is returning to
employment or self-employment in the UK at
paragraphs E-ECP.3.2.(a) and E-ECC.2.2.(a) of
Appendix FM, or where paragraph 21A of this
Appendix so permits).
(cc) The income of an applicant or sponsor working
in the UK in salaried or non-salaried employment or
in self-employment can include income from work
undertaken overseas, provided paragraph ELTRP.1.10 of Appendix FM and the other
requirements of this Appendix are met.
(d) All income and savings must be lawfully derived.
(e) Savings must be held in cash.
(f) Income or cash savings in a foreign currency will
be converted to pounds sterling using the exchange
rate specified in FIN 1.1, FIN 1.2 or FIN 1.3.
(g) Where there is income or cash savings in
different foreign currencies, each will be converted

into pounds sterling before being added together,
and then added to any UK income or savings to give
a total amount.
(h) DELETED
(i) Evidence of profit from the sale of a business,
property, investment, bond, stocks, shares or other
asset will:
(i) not be accepted as evidence of income, but
(ii) the associated funds will be accepted as cash
savings subject to the requirements of this
Appendix and Appendix FM.
(j) Where any specified documents provided are not
in English or Welsh, the applicant must provide
document in the original language and a full
translation that can be independently verified by the
Entry Clearance Officer, Immigration Officer or the
Secretary of State. The translation must be dated
and include:
(i) confirmation that it is an accurate translation
of the document;
(ii) the full name and signature of the translator
or an authorised official of the translation
company;
(iii) the translator or translation company’s
contact details; and
(iv) if the applicant is applying for leave to remain
or indefinite leave to remain, certification by a
qualified translator and details of the translator or
translation company’s credentials.
(k) Where the gross (pre-tax) amount of any income
cannot be properly evidenced, the net (post-tax)
amount will be counted, including towards a gross
income requirement.
(l) Where this Appendix requires the applicant to
provide specified evidence relating to a period which
ends with the date of application, that evidence, or
the most recently dated part of it, must be dated no
earlier than 28 days before the date of application.
(m) Cash income on which the correct tax has been
paid may be counted as income under this
Appendix, subject to the relevant evidential

requirements of this Appendix.
(n) The gross amount of any cash income may be
counted where the person’s specified bank
statements show the net amount which relates to
the gross amount shown on their payslips (or in the
relevant specified evidence provided in addition to
the specified bank statements in relation to nonemployment income). Otherwise, only the net
amount shown on the specified bank statements
may be counted.
(o) In this Appendix, a reference to the “average” is
a reference to the mean average.
2. In respect of salaried employment in the UK (except
where paragraph 9 applies), all of the following
evidence must be provided:
(a) Payslips covering:
(i) a period of 6 months prior to the date of
application if the person has been employed by
their current employer for at least 6 months (and
where paragraph 13(b) of this Appendix does not
apply); or
(ii) any period of salaried employment in the
period of 12 months prior to the date of
application if the person has been employed by
their current employer for less than 6 months (or
at least 6 months but the person does not rely on
paragraph 13(a) of this Appendix), or in the
financial year(s) relied upon by a self-employed
person.
(b) A letter from the employer(s) who issued the
payslips at paragraph 2(a) confirming:
(i) the person’s employment and gross annual
salary;
(ii) the length of their employment;
(iii) the period over which they have been or
were paid the level of salary relied upon in the
application; and
(iv) the type of employment (permanent, fixedterm contract or agency).
(c) Personal bank statements corresponding to the
same period(s) as the payslips at paragraph 2(a),

showing that the salary has been paid into an
account in the name of the person or in the name of
the person and their partner jointly.
(d) Where the person is a director of a limited
company based in the UK, evidence that the
company is not of a type specified in paragraph 9(a).
This can include the latest Annual Return filed at
Companies House.
(e) Where a person appointed as a non-executive
director of a limited company based in the UK, which
is not a company of the type specified in paragraph
9(a), is paid a fee instead of a salary, this income
may be treated and evidenced as though it were
income received for employment in that capacity.
2A. (i) In respect of salaried employment in the UK
(paragraph 2 of this Appendix), statutory or contractual
maternity, paternity, adoption or sick pay in the UK
(paragraph 5 or 6 of this Appendix), or a director’s
salary paid to a self-employed person (paragraph 9 of
this Appendix), the applicant may, in addition to the
payslips and personal bank statements required under
that paragraph, submit the P60 for the relevant period(s)
of employment relied upon (if issued). If they do not, the
Entry Clearance Officer or Secretary of State may grant
the application if otherwise satisfied that the
requirements of this Appendix relating to that
employment are met. The Entry Clearance Officer or
Secretary of State may request that the applicant submit
the document(s) in accordance with paragraph D of this
Appendix.
(ii) In respect of salaried employment in the UK
(paragraph 2 of this Appendix), or statutory or
contractual maternity, paternity, adoption or sick pay in
the UK (paragraph 5 or 6 of this Appendix), the
applicant may, in addition to the letter from the
employer(s) required under that paragraph, submit a
signed contract of employment. If they do not, the Entry
Clearance Officer or Secretary of State may grant the
application if otherwise satisfied that the requirements of
this Appendix relating to that employment are met. The
Entry Clearance Officer or Secretary of State may
request that the applicant submit the document(s) in
accordance with paragraph D of this Appendix.
3. In respect of salaried employment outside of the UK,
evidence should be a reasonable equivalent to that set

out in paragraph 2 and (where relevant) paragraph 2A.
In respect of an equity partner whose income from the
partnership is treated as salaried employment under
paragraph 17, the payslips and employer’s letter
referred to in paragraph 2 may be replaced by other
evidence providing the relevant information in
paragraph 2 (which may include, but is not confined to,
a letter on official stationery from an accountant,
solicitor or business manager acting for the
partnership).
4. In respect of a job offer in the UK (for an applicant’s
partner or parent’s partner returning to salaried
employment in the UK at paragraphs E-ECP.3.2.(a) and
E-ECC.2.2.(a) of Appendix FM) a letter from the
employer must be provided:
(a) confirming the job offer, the gross annual salary
and the starting date of the employment which must
be within 3 months of the applicant’s partner’s return
to the UK; or
(b) enclosing a signed contract of employment,
which must have a starting date within 3 months of
the applicant’s partner’s return to the UK.
5. In respect of statutory or contractual maternity,
paternity or adoption pay all of the following, and in
respect of parental leave in the UK only the evidence at
paragraph 5(c), must be provided:
(a) Personal bank statements corresponding to the
same period(s) as the payslips at paragraph 5(b),
showing that the salary has been paid into an
account in the name of the person or in the name of
the person and their partner jointly.
(b) Payslips covering:
(i) a period of 6 months prior to the date of
application or to the commencement of the
maternity, paternity or adoption leave, if the
applicant has been employed by their current
employer for at least 6 months (and where
paragraph 13(b) does not apply); or
(ii) any period of salaried employment in the
period of 12 months prior to the date of
application or to the commencement of the
maternity, paternity or adoption leave, if the
applicant has been employed by their current

employer for less than 6 months (or at least 6
months but the person does not rely on
paragraph 13(a)).
(c) A letter from the employer confirming:
(i) the length of the person’s employment;
(ii) the gross annual salary and the period over
which it has been paid at this level;
(iii) the entitlement to maternity, paternity,
parental or adoption leave; and
(iv) the date of commencement and the end-date
of the maternity, paternity, parental or adoption
leave.
6. In respect of statutory or contractual sick pay in the
UK all of the following must be provided:
(a) Personal bank statements corresponding to the
same period(s) as the payslips at paragraph 6(b),
showing that the salary has been paid into an
account in the name of the person or in the name of
the person and their partner jointly.
(b) Payslips covering:
(i) a period of 6 months prior to the date of
application or to the commencement of the sick
leave, if the applicant has been employed by
their current employer for at least 6 months (and
where paragraph 13(b) does not apply); or,
(ii) any period of salaried employment in the
period of 12 months prior to the date of
application or to the commencement of the sick
leave, if the applicant has been employed by
their current employer for less than 6 months (or
at least 6 months but the person does not rely on
paragraph 13(a)).
(c) A letter from employer confirming:
(i) the length of the person’s employment;
(ii) the gross annual salary and the period over
which it has been paid at this level;
(iii) that the person is in receipt of statutory or
contractual sick pay; and
(iv) the date of commencement of the sick leave.

7. In respect of self-employment in the UK as a partner,
as a sole trader or in a franchise all of the following
must be provided:
(a) Evidence of the amount of tax payable, paid and
unpaid for the last full financial year.
(b) The following documents for the last full financial
year, or for the last two such years (where those
documents show the necessary level of gross profit
as an average of those two years):
(i) annual self-assessment tax return to HMRC
(a copy or print-out); and
(ii) Statement of Account (SA300 or SA302).
(c) Proof of registration with HMRC as selfemployed if available.
(d) Each partner’s Unique Tax Reference Number
(UTR) and/or the UTR of the partnership or
business.
(e) Where the person holds or held a separate
business bank account(s), bank statements for the
same 12-month period as the tax return(s).
(f) personal bank statements for the same 12-month
period as the tax return(s) showing that the income
from self-employment has been paid into an account
in the name of the person or in the name of the
person and their partner jointly.
(g) Evidence of ongoing self-employment through
the provision of at least one of the following: a bank
statement dated no more than three months earlier
than the date of application showing transactions
relating to ongoing trading, or evidence dated no
more than three months earlier than the date of
application of the renewal of a licence to trade or of
ongoing payment of business rates, businessrelated insurance premiums, employer National
Insurance contributions or franchise payments to the
parent company.
(h) One of the following documents must also be
submitted:
(i) (aa) If the business is required to produce
annual audited accounts, such accounts for the
last full financial year; or

(bb) If the business is not required to produce
annual audited accounts, unaudited accounts for
the last full financial year and an accountant’s
certificate of confirmation, from an accountant
who is a member of a UK Recognised
Supervisory Body (as defined in the Companies
Act 2006) or who is a member of the Institute of
Financial Accountants, The Association of
Authorised Public Accountants, The Chartered
Institute of Public Finance and Accountancy, The
Chartered Institute of Management Accountants,
the Association of International Accountants and
The Association of Accounting Technicians;
(ii) A certificate of VAT registration and the VAT
return for the last full financial year (a copy or
print-out) confirming the VAT registration
number, if turnover is in excess of £79,000 or
was in excess of the threshold which applied
during the last full financial year;
(iii) Evidence to show appropriate planning
permission or local planning authority consent is
held to operate the type/class of business at the
trading address (where this is a local authority
requirement); or
(iv) A franchise agreement signed by both
parties.
(i) The document referred to in paragraph 7(h)(iv)
must be provided if the organisation is a franchise.
8. In respect of self-employment outside of the UK,
evidence should be a reasonable equivalent to that set
out in paragraph 7.
8A. In respect of prospective self-employment in the UK
(for an applicant’s partner or parent’s partner who, in
respect of paragraph E-ECP.3.2.(a) or E-ECC.2.2.(a) of
Appendix FM, is in self-employment outside the UK at
the date of application and is returning to the UK to
continue that self-employment), one of the following
must be provided, with a starting date within three
months of the person’s return to the UK:
(a) An application to the appropriate authority for a
licence to trade;
(b) Details of the purchase or rental of business
premises;

(c) A signed employment contract or a signed
contract for the provision of services; or
(d) A partnership or franchise agreement signed by
the relevant parties to the agreement.
9. In respect of income from employment and/or shares
in a limited company based in the UK of a type specified
in paragraph 9(a), the requirements of paragraph 9(b)(e) shall apply in place of the requirements of
paragraphs 2 and 10(b).
(a) The specified type of limited company is one in
which:
(i) the person is either a director or employee of
the company, or both, or of another company
within the same group; and
(ii) shares are held (directly or indirectly) by the
person, their partner or the following family
members of the person or their partner: parent,
grandparent, child, stepchild, grandchild, brother,
sister, uncle, aunt, nephew, niece or first cousin;
and
(iii) any remaining shares are held (directly or
indirectly) by fewer than five other persons.
(b) All of the following must be provided:
(i) Company Tax Return CT600 (a copy or printout) for the last full financial year and evidence
this has been filed with HMRC, such as
electronic or written acknowledgment from
HMRC.
(ii) Evidence of registration with the Registrar of
Companies at Companies House.
(iii) If the company is required to produce annual
audited accounts, such accounts for the last full
financial year.
(iv) If the company is not required to produce
annual audited accounts, unaudited accounts for
the last full financial year and an accountant’s
certificate of confirmation, from an accountant
who is a member of a UK Recognized
Supervisory Body (as defined in the Companies
Act 2006) or who is a member of the Institute of
Financial Accountants, The Association of
Authorised Public Accountants, The Chartered

Institute of Public Finance and Accountancy, The
Chartered Institute of Management Accountants,
the Association of International Accountants and
The Association of Accounting Technicians.
(v) Corporate/business bank statements
covering the same 12-month period as the
Company Tax Return CT600.
(vi) DELETED
(vii) One of the following documents must also
be provided:
(1) A certificate of VAT registration and the
VAT return for the last full financial year (a
copy or print-out) confirming the VAT
registration number, if turnover is in excess
of £79,000 or was in excess of the threshold
which applied during the last full financial
year.
(2) Proof of ownership or lease of business
premises.
(3) Proof of registration with HMRC as an
employer for the purposes of PAYE and
National Insurance, proof of PAYE reference
number and Accounts Office reference
number. This evidence may be in the form of
a certified copy of the documentation issued
by HMRC.
(c) Where the person is either listed as a director of
the company, or is an employee of the company, or
both, and receives a salary from the company, all of
the following documents must also be provided:
(i) Payslips and P60 (if issued) covering the
same period as the Company Tax Return
CT600.
(ii) Personal bank statements covering the same
12-month period as the Company Tax Return
CT600 showing that the salary as a director or
employee of the company (or both) was paid into
an account in the name of the person or in the
name of the person and their partner jointly.
(d) Where the person receives dividends from the
company, all of the following documents must also
be provided:

(i) Dividend vouchers for all dividends declared
in favour of the person during or in respect of the
period covered by the Company Tax Return
CT600 showing the company’s and the person’s
details with the person’s net dividend amount.
(ii) Personal bank statement(s) showing that
those dividends were paid into an account in the
name of the person or in the name of the person
and their partner jointly.
(e) For the purposes of paragraph 19(a), evidence of
ongoing employment as a director or other
employee of the company or of ongoing receipt of
dividend income from the company must be
provided. This evidence may include payslips (or
dividend vouchers) and personal bank statements
showing that, in the period since the latest 12-month
period covered by the Company Tax Return CT600,
the person’s salary as a director or employee of the
company (or both) (or dividend income from the
company) was paid into an account in the name of
the person or in the name of the person and their
partner jointly. Alternative evidence may include
evidence of ongoing payment of business rates,
business-related insurance premiums or employer
National Insurance contributions in relation to the
company.
10. In respect of non-employment income all the
following evidence, in relation to the form of income
relied upon, must be provided:
(a) To evidence property rental income:
(i) Confirmation that the person or the person
and their partner jointly own the property for
which the rental income is received, through:
(1) A copy of the title deeds of the property or
of the title register from the Land Registry (or
overseas equivalent); or
(2) A mortgage statement.
(ii) personal bank statements for or from the 12month period prior to the date of application
showing the income relied upon was paid into an
account in the name of the person or of the
person and their partner jointly.
(iii) A rental agreement or contract.

(b) To evidence dividends (except where paragraph
9 applies) or other income from investments, stocks,
shares, bonds or trust funds:
(i) A certificate showing proof of ownership and
the amount(s) of any investment(s).
(ii) A portfolio report (for a financial institution
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority
(and the Prudential Regulation Authority where
applicable) in the UK) or a dividend voucher
showing the company and person’s details with
the person’s net dividend amount.
(iii) personal bank statements for or from the 12month period prior to the date of application
showing that the income relied upon was paid
into an account in the name of the person or of
the person and their partner jointly.
(iv) Where the person is a director of a limited
company based in the UK, evidence that the
company is not of a type specified in paragraph
9(a). This can include the latest Annual Return
filed at Companies House.
(c) To evidence interest from savings:
(i) personal bank statements for or from the 12month period prior to the date of application
showing the amount of the savings held and that
the interest was paid into an account in the
name of the person or of the person and their
partner jointly.
(d) To evidence maintenance payments (from a
former partner of the applicant to maintain their and
the applicant’s child or children or the applicant, or
from a former partner of the applicant’s partner to
maintain the applicant’s partner):
(i) Evidence of a maintenance agreement
through any of the following:
(1) A court order;
(2) Written voluntary agreement; or
(3) Child Support Agency documentation.
(ii) personal bank statements for or from the 12month period prior to the date of application
showing the income relied upon was paid into an

account in the name of the person or the person
and their partner jointly.
(e) To evidence a pension:
(i) Official documentation from:
(1) The Department for Work and Pensions
(in respect of the Basic State Pension and
the Additional or Second State Pension) or
other government department or agency,
including the Veterans Agency;
(2) An overseas pension authority; or
(3) A pension company,
confirming pension entitlement and amount
(and, where applicable, reflecting any funds
withdrawn from the pension account or fund).
(ii) At least one personal bank statement in the
12-month period prior to the date of application
showing payment of the pension into the
person’s account.
(iii) For the purposes of sub-paragraph (i), War
Disablement Pension, War Widow’s/Widower’s
Pension and any other pension or equivalent
payment for life made under the War Pensions
Scheme, the Armed Forces Compensation
Scheme or the Armed Forces Attributable
Benefits Scheme may be treated as a pension,
unless excluded under paragraph 21 of this
Appendix.
(f) To evidence UK Maternity Allowance,
Bereavement Allowance, Bereavement Payment
and Widowed Parent’s Allowance:
(i) Department for Work and Pensions
documentation confirming the person or their
partner is or was in receipt of the benefit in the
12-month period prior to the date of application.
(ii) personal bank statements for or from the 12month period prior to the date of application
showing the income was paid into the person’s
account.
(ff) Subject to paragraph 12, to evidence payments
under the War Pensions Scheme, the Armed Forces
Compensation Scheme or the Armed Forces

Attributable Benefits Scheme which are not treated
as a pension for the purposes of paragraph 10(e)(i):
(i) Veterans Agency or Department for Work and
Pensions documentation in the form of an award
notification letter confirming the person or their
partner is or was in receipt of the payment at the
date of application.
(ii) personal bank statements for or from the 12month period prior to the date of application
showing the income was paid into the person’s
account.
(g) To evidence a maintenance grant or stipend (not
a loan) associated with undergraduate study or
postgraduate study or research:
(i) Documentation from the body or company
awarding the grant or stipend confirming that the
person is currently in receipt of the grant or
stipend or will be within 3 months of the date of
application, confirming that the grant or stipend
will be paid for a period of at least 12 months or
for at least one full academic year from the date
of application or from the date on which payment
of the grant or stipend will commence, and
confirming the annual amount of the grant or
stipend. Where the grant or stipend is or will be
paid on a tax-free basis, the amount of the gross
equivalent may be counted as income under this
Appendix.
(ii) personal bank statements for any part of the
12-month period prior to the date of the
application during which the person has been in
receipt of the grant or stipend showing the
income was paid into the person’s account.
(h) To evidence ongoing insurance payments (such
as, but not exclusively, payments received under an
income protection policy):
(i) documentation from the insurance company
confirming:
(a) that in the 12 months prior to the date of
application the person has been in receipt of
insurance payments and the amount and
frequency of the payments.
(b) the reason for the payments and their

expected duration.
(c) that, provided any relevant terms and
conditions continue to be met, the payment(s)
will continue for at least the 12 months following
the date of application.
(ii) personal bank statements for or from the 12month period prior to the date of application
showing the insurance payments were paid into
the person’s account.
(i) To evidence ongoing payments (other than
maintenance payments under paragraph 10(d))
arising from a structured legal settlement (such as,
but not exclusively, one arising from settlement of a
personal injury claim):
(i) documentation from a court or the person’s
legal representative confirming:
(a) that in the 12 months prior to the date of
application the person has been in receipt of
structured legal settlement payments and the
amount and frequency of those payments.
(b) the reason for the payments and their
expected duration.
(c) that the payment(s) will continue for at least
the 12 months following the date of application.
(ii) personal bank statements for or from the 12month period prior to the date of application
showing the payments were paid into the
person’s account, either directly or via the
person’s legal representative.
11. In respect of cash savings the following must be
provided:
(a) personal bank statements showing that at least
the level of cash savings relied upon in the
application has been held in an account(s) in the
name of the person or of the person and their
partner jointly throughout the period of 6 months
prior to the date of application.
(b) A declaration by the account holder(s) of the
source(s) of the cash savings.
11A. In respect of cash savings:
(a) The savings may be held in any form of

bank/savings account (whether a current, deposit or
investment account, provided by a financial
institution regulated by the appropriate regulatory
body for the country in which that institution is
operating), provided that the account allows the
savings to be accessed immediately (with or without
a penalty for withdrawing funds without notice). This
can include savings held in a pension savings
account which can be immediately withdrawn.
(b) Paid out competition winnings or a legacy which
has been paid can contribute to cash savings.
(c) Funds held as cash savings by the applicant,
their partner or both jointly at the date of application
can have been transferred from investments, stocks,
shares, bonds or trust funds within the period of 6
months prior to the date of application, provided
that:
(i) The funds have been in the ownership and
under the control of the applicant, their partner or
both jointly for at least the period of 6 months
prior to the date of application.
(ii) The ownership of the funds in the form of
investments, stocks, shares, bonds or trust
funds; the cash value of the funds in that form at
or before the beginning of the period of 6 months
prior to the date of application; and the transfer
of the funds into cash, are evidenced by a
portfolio report or other relevant documentation
from a financial institution regulated by the
appropriate regulatory body for the country in
which that institution is operating.
(iii) The requirements of this Appendix in respect
of the cash savings held at the date of
application are met, except that the period of 6
months prior to the date of application in
paragraph 11(a) will be reduced by the amount
of that period in which the relevant funds were
held in the form of investments, stocks, shares,
bonds or trust funds.
(iv) For the purposes of sub-paragraph 11A(c),
“investments” includes funds held in an
investment account or pension account or fund
which does not meet the requirements of
paragraphs 11 and 11A(a).

(d) Funds held as cash savings by the applicant,
their partner or both jointly at the date of application
can be from the proceeds of the sale of property, in
the form only of a dwelling, other building or land,
which took place within the period of 6 months prior
to the date of application, provided that:
(i) The property (or relevant share of the
property) was owned at the beginning of the
period of 6 months prior to the date of
application and at the date of sale by the
applicant, their partner or both jointly.
(ii) Where ownership of the property was shared
with a third party, only the proceeds of the sale
of the share of the property owned by the
applicant, their partner or both jointly may be
counted.
(iii) The funds deposited as cash savings are the
net proceeds of the sale, once any mortgage or
loan secured on the property (or relevant share
of the property) has been repaid and once any
taxes and professional fees associated with the
sale have been paid.
(iv) The decision-maker is satisfied that the
requirements in sub-paragraphs (i)-(iii) are met
on the basis of information and documents
submitted in support of the application. These
may include for example:
(1) Registration information or documentation
(or a copy of this) from the Land Registry (or
overseas equivalent).
(2) A letter from a solicitor (or other relevant
professional, if the sale takes place
overseas) instructed in the sale of the
property confirming the sale price and other
relevant information.
(3) A letter from a lender (a bank or building
society) on its headed stationery regarding
the repayment of a mortgage or loan secured
on the property.
(4) Confirmation of payment of taxes or
professional fees associated with the sale.
(5) Any other relevant evidence that the
requirements in subparagraphs (i)-(iii) are

met.
(v) The requirements of this Appendix in respect
of the cash savings held at the date of
application are met, except that the period of 6
months mentioned in paragraph 11(a) will be
reduced by the amount of time which passed
between the start of that 6-month period and the
deposit of the proceeds of the sale in an account
mentioned in paragraph 11(a).
12. Where a person is in receipt of:
(a) Disability Living Allowance; or
(b) Severe Disablement Allowance; or
(c) Industrial Injuries Disablement Benefit; or
(d) Attendance Allowance; or
(e) Carer’s Allowance; or
(f) Personal Independence Payment; or
(g) Armed Forces Independence Payment or
Guaranteed Income Payment under the Armed
Forces Compensation Scheme; or
(h) Constant Attendance Allowance, Mobility
Supplement or War Disablement Pension under the
War Pensions Scheme; or
(i) Police Injury Pension; or
(j) Child Disability Payment (Scotland); or
(k) Adult Disability Payment (Scotland): or
(l) Carer’s Support Payment (Scotland); or
(m) Pension Age Disability Payment (Scotland); or
(n) Scottish Adult Disability Living Allowance
(Scotland),
the following must be provided:
(i) official documentation from the Department for
Work and Pensions, Social Security Scotland,
Veterans Agency or Police Pension Authority (as the
case may be), confirming the current entitlement
and the amount currently received;
and
(ii) at least one personal bank statement from the
12-month period immediately before the date of

application showing payment of the amount of the
benefit or allowance to which the person is currently
entitled into their account.
12A. Where the financial requirement the applicant must
meet under Appendix FM or under Appendix Adult
Dependent Relative, Appendix HM Armed Forces,
Appendix International Armed Forces and International
Civilian Employees, Appendix Adoption or Appendix
Child Relative (Sponsors with Protection), relates to
adequate maintenance, paragraphs 2 to 12 apply only
to the extent and in the manner specified by this
paragraph. Where such a financial requirement applies,
the applicant must provide the following evidence:
(a) Where the current salaried employment in the
UK of the applicant or their partner, parent, parent’s
partner or sponsor is relied upon:
(i) A letter from the employer confirming the
employment, the gross annual salary and the
annual salary after income tax and National
Insurance contributions have been paid, how
long the employment has been held, and the
type of employment (permanent, fixed-term
contract or agency).
(ii) Payslips covering the period of 6 months prior
to the date of application or such shorter period
as the current employment has been held.
(iii) personal bank statement covering the same
period as the payslips, showing that the salary
has been paid into an account in the name of the
person or in the name of the person and their
partner jointly.
(b) Where statutory or contractual maternity,
paternity, adoption or sick pay in the UK of the
applicant or their partner, parent, parent’s partner or
sponsor are relied upon, paragraph 5(b)(i) and (c) or
paragraph 6(b)(i) and (c) apply as appropriate.
(c) Where self-employment in the UK of the
applicant or their partner, parent, parent’s partner or
sponsor, or income from employment and/or shares
in a limited company based in the UK of a type to
which paragraph 9 applies, is relied upon, paragraph
7 or 9 applies as appropriate.
(d) Where the non-employment income of the

applicant or their partner, parent, parent’s partner or
sponsor is relied upon, paragraph 10 applies and
paragraph 10(f) shall apply as if it referred to any UK
welfare benefit or tax credit relied upon and to
HMRC as well as Department for Work and
Pensions or other official documentation.
(e) Where the cash savings of the applicant or their
partner, parent, parent’s partner or sponsor are
relied upon, paragraphs 11 and 11A apply.
(f) The monthly housing and Council Tax costs for
the accommodation in the UK in which the applicant
(and any other family members who are or will be
part of the same household) lives or will live if the
application is granted.
(g) Where the applicant is an adult dependent
relative the applicant must in addition provide details
of the care arrangements in the UK planned for
them by their sponsor (which can involve other
family members in the UK), of the cost of these
arrangements and of how that cost will be met by
the sponsor.
12B. Where the financial requirement an applicant must
meet under Part 8 (excluding an applicant who is a
family member of a Relevant Points Based System
Migrant), under Appendix FM or under Appendix Adult
Dependent Relative, Appendix HM Armed Forces,
Appendix International Armed Forces and International
Civilian Employees, Appendix Adoption or Appendix
Child Relative (Sponsors with Protection), relates to
adequate maintenance and where cash savings are
relied upon to meet the requirement in full or in part, the
decision-maker will:
(a) Establish the total cash savings which meet the
requirements of paragraphs 11 and 11A;
(b) Divide this figure by the number of weeks of
limited leave which would be issued if the
application were granted, or by 52 if the application
is for indefinite leave to enter or remain;
(c) Add the figure in sub-paragraph 12B(b) to the
weekly net income (before the deduction of housing
costs) available to meet the requirement.
Calculating Gross Annual Income under Appendix

FM
13. Based on evidence that meets the requirements of
this Appendix, and can be taken into account with
reference to the applicable provisions of Appendix FM,
gross annual income under paragraphs E-ECP.3.1., ELTRP.3.1., E-LTRP.3.7., E-ECC.2.1., E-ECC.2.5., ELTRC.2.1. and E-LTRC.2.5. will, subject to paragraph
21A of this Appendix, be calculated in the following
ways:
(a) Where the person is in salaried employment in
the UK at the date of application, has been
employed by their current employer for at least 6
months and has been paid throughout the period of
6 months prior to the date of application at a level of
gross annual salary which equals or exceeds the
level relied upon in paragraph 13(a)(i), their gross
annual income will be (where paragraph 13(b) does
not apply) the total of:
(i) The level of gross annual salary relied upon in
the application;
(ii) The gross amount of any specified nonemployment income (other than pension income)
received by them or their partner in the 12
months prior to the date of application; and
(iii) The gross annual income from a UK or
foreign State pension or a private pension
received by them or their partner.
(b) Where the person is in salaried employment in
the UK at the date of application and has been
employed by their current employer for less than 6
months (or at least 6 months but the person does
not rely on paragraph 13(a)), their gross annual
income will be the total of:
(i) The gross annual salary from employment as
it was at the date of application;
(ii) The gross amount of any specified nonemployment income (other than pension income)
received by them or their partner in the 12
months prior to the date of application; and
(iii) The gross annual income from a UK or
foreign State pension or a private pension
received by them or their partner. In addition, the

requirements of paragraph 15 must be met.
(c) Where the person is the applicant’s partner, is in
salaried employment outside of the UK at the date of
application, has been employed by their current
employer for at least 6 months, and is returning to
the UK to take up salaried employment in the UK
starting within 3 months of their return, the person’s
gross annual income will be calculated:
(i) On the basis set out in paragraph 13(a); and
also
(ii) On that basis but substituting for the gross
annual salary at paragraph 13(a)(i) the gross
annual salary in the salaried employment in the
UK to which they are returning.
(d) Where the person is the applicant’s partner, has
been in salaried employment outside of the UK
within 12 months of the date of application, and is
returning to the UK to take up salaried employment
in the UK starting within 3 months of their return, the
person’s gross annual income will be calculated:
(i) On the basis set out in paragraph 13(a) but
substituting for the gross annual salary at
paragraph 13(a)(i) the gross annual salary in the
salaried employment in the UK to which they are
returning; and also
(ii) On the basis set out in paragraph 15(b).
(e) Where the person is self-employed, their gross
annual income will be the total of their gross income
from their self-employment (and that of their partner
if that person is in the UK with permission to work),
from any salaried or non-salaried employment they
have had or their partner has had (if their partner is
in the UK with permission to work), from specified
non-employment income received by them or their
partner, and from income from a UK or foreign State
pension or a private pension received by them or
their partner, in the last full financial year or as an
average of the last two full financial years. The
requirements of this Appendix for specified evidence
relating to these forms of income shall apply as if
references to the date of application were
references to the end of the relevant financial
year(s). The relevant financial year(s) cannot be
combined with any financial year(s) to which

paragraph 9 applies and vice versa.
(f) Where the person is self-employed, they cannot
combine their gross annual income at paragraph
13(e) with specified savings in order to meet the
level of income required under Appendix FM.
(g) Where the person is not relying on income from
salaried employment or self-employment, their gross
annual income will be the total of:
(i) The gross amount of any specified nonemployment income (other than pension income)
received by them or their partner in the 12
months prior to the date of application; and
(ii) The gross annual income from a UK or
foreign State pension or a private pension
received by them or their partner.
(h) Where the person is the applicant’s partner and
is in self-employment outside the UK at the date of
application and is returning to the UK to take up
salaried employment in the UK starting within 3
months of their return, the person’s gross annual
income will be calculated:
(i) On the basis set out in paragraph 13(a) but
substituting for the gross annual salary at
paragraph 13(a)(i) the gross annual salary in the
salaried employment in the UK to which they are
returning; and also
(ii) On the basis set out in paragraph 13(e).
(i) Any period of unpaid maternity, paternity,
adoption, parental or sick leave in the 12 months
prior to the date of application will not be counted
towards any period relating to employment, or any
period relating to income from employment, for
which this Appendix provides.
(j) The provisions of paragraph 13 which apply to
self-employment and to a person who is selfemployed also apply to income from employment
and/or shares in a limited company based in the UK
of a type to which paragraph 9 applies and to a
person in receipt of such income.
(k) Where the application relies on the employment
income of the applicant and the sponsor, all of that
income must be calculated either under

subparagraph 13(a) or under sub-paragraph 13(b)
and paragraph 15, and not under a combination of
these methods.
14. Where the requirements of this Appendix and
Appendix FM are met by the combined income or cash
savings of more than one person, the income or the
cash savings must only be counted once unless stated
otherwise.
15. In respect of paragraph 13(b) and paragraph 13(d),
the provisions in this paragraph also apply:
(a) In order to evidence the level of gross annual
income required by Appendix FM, the person must
meet the requirements in paragraph 13(b) or
paragraph 13(d)(i); and
(b) The person must also meet the level of gross
annual income required by Appendix FM on the
basis that their income is the total of:
(i) The gross income from salaried employment
in the UK or overseas earned by the person in
the 12 months prior to the date of application;
(ii) The gross amount of any specified nonemployment income (other than pension income)
received by the person or their partner in the 12
months prior to the date of application;
(iii) The gross amount received from a UK or
foreign State pension or a private pension by the
person or their partner in the 12 months prior to
the date of application; and
(iv)The person cannot combine the gross annual
income at paragraph 15(b)(i)-(iii) with specified
savings in order to meet the level of income
required.
16. Where a person is in receipt of maternity, paternity,
adoption or sick pay or has been so in the 6 months
prior to the date of application, this paragraph applies:
(a) the relevant date for considering the length of
employment with their current employer will be the
date that the maternity, paternity, adoption or sick
leave commenced or the date of application; and
(b) the relevant period for calculating income from
their salaried employment will be the period prior to
the commencement of the maternity, paternity,

adoption or sick pay or to the date of application.
17. If a person is an equity partner, for example in a law
firm, the income they draw from the partnership
(including where this is in the form of a profit share) will
be treated as salaried employment for the purposes of
this Appendix and Appendix FM.
17A. Where a person is a subcontractor under the
Construction Industry Scheme administered by HMRC
and does not rely on paragraph 13(e), the income they
receive as a subcontractor under the Construction
Industry Scheme may be treated as income from
salaried employment for the purposes of this Appendix
and Appendix FM. In that case, the requirements for
specified evidence in paragraph 2 must be met, subject
to applying those requirements so as to reflect the
person’s status as a subcontractor under the
Construction Industry Scheme.
18. When calculating income from salaried employment
under paragraphs 12A and 13 to 16, this paragraph
applies:
(a) Basic pay, skills-based allowances, and UK
location-based allowances will be counted as
income provided that:
(i) They are contractual; and
(ii) Where these allowances make up more than
30% of the total salary, only the amount up to
30% is counted.
(b) Overtime, payments to cover travel time,
commission-based pay and bonuses (which can
include tips and gratuities paid via a tronc scheme
registered with HMRC) will be counted as income,
where they have been received in the relevant
period(s) of employment or self-employment relied
upon in the application.
(bb) In respect of a person in salaried employment
at the date of application, the amount of income in
sub-paragraph (b) which may be added to their
gross annual salary, and counted as part of that
figure for the purposes of paragraph 13(a)(i) or 13(b)
(i), is the annual equivalent of the person’s average
gross monthly income from that income in their
current employment in the 6 months prior to the date
of application.

(c) Payments relating to the costs of UK or overseas
travel, including (for example) travelling or relocation
expenses and subsistence or accommodation
allowances, and payments made towards the costs
of living overseas, will not be counted as income.
(d) Gross income from non-salaried employment will
be calculated on the same basis as income from
salaried employment, except as provided in
paragraph 18(e) and 18(f), and the requirements of
this Appendix for specified evidence relating to
salaried employment shall apply as if references to
salary were references to income from non-salaried
employment. Non-salaried employment includes that
paid at an hourly or other rate (and the number
and/or pattern of hours required to be worked may
vary), or paid an amount which varies according to
the work undertaken, whereas salaried employment
includes that paid at a minimum fixed rate (usually
annual) and is subject usually to a contractual
minimum number of hours to be worked.
(e) For the purpose of paragraph 13(a)(i), in respect
of a person in non-salaried employment at the date
of application “the level of gross annual salary relied
upon in the application” shall be no greater than the
annual equivalent of the person’s average gross
monthly income from non-salaried employment in
the 6 months prior to the date of application, where
that employment was held throughout that period.
(f) For the purpose of paragraph 13(b)(i), “the gross
annual salary from employment as it was at the date
of application” of a person in non-salaried
employment at the date of application shall be
considered to be the annual equivalent of:
(aa) the person’s gross income from nonsalaried employment in the period immediately
prior to the date of application, where the
employment has been held for a period of no
more than one month at the date of application;
or
(bb) the person’s average gross monthly income
from non-salaried employment, where the
employment has been held for a period of more
than one month at the date of application.
(g) For the purpose of paragraphs 13(c)(ii) and 13(d)

(i), “the gross annual salary in the salaried
employment in the UK to which they are returning”
of a person who is returning to the UK to take up
non-salaried employment in the UK starting within 3
months of their return is the gross annual income
from that employment, based on the rate or amount
of pay, and the standard or core hours of work, set
out in the document(s) from the employer provided
under paragraph 4. Notwithstanding paragraph
18(b), this may include the gross “on-target”
earnings which may be expected from satisfactory
performance in the standard or core hours of work.
19. When calculating income from self-employment
under paragraphs 12A and 13(e), and in relation to
income from employment and/or shares in a limited
company based in the UK of a type to which paragraph
9 applies, this paragraph applies:
(a) There must be evidence of ongoing selfemployment, and (where income from salaried
employment is also relied upon or where paragraph
9(c) applies) ongoing employment, at the date of
application.
(b) Where the self-employed person is a sole trader
or is in a partnership or franchise agreement, the
income will be the gross taxable profits from their
share of the business in the relevant financial
year(s), not including any deductable allowances,
expenses or liabilities which may be applied to the
gross taxable profits to establish the final tax liability.
(c) Where income to which paragraph 19 applies is
being used to meet the financial requirement for an
initial application for leave to remain as a partner
under Appendix FM by an applicant who used such
income to meet that requirement in an application
for entry clearance as a fiancé(e) or proposed civil
partner under that Appendix in the last 12 months,
the Secretary of State may continue to accept the
same level and evidence of income to which
paragraph 19 applies that was accepted in granting
the application for entry clearance, provided that
there is evidence of ongoing self-employment, and
(where income from salaried employment is also
relied upon or where paragraph 9(c) applies)
ongoing employment, at the date of the application
for leave to remain.

(d) The financial year(s) to which paragraph 7 refers
is the period of the last full financial year(s) to which
the required Statement(s) of Account (SA300 or
SA302) relates.
(e) The financial year(s) to which paragraph 9 refers
is the period of the last full financial year(s) to which
the required Company Tax Return(s) CT600 relates.
20. When calculating income from specified nonemployment sources under paragraphs 12A and 13 to
15, this paragraph applies:
(a) Assets or savings must be in the name of the
person, or jointly with their partner.
(b) Any asset or savings on which income is based
must be held or owned by the person at the date of
application.
(c) Any rental income from property, in the UK or
overseas, must be from a property that is:
(i) owned by the person;
(ii) not their main residence and will not be so if
the application is granted, except in the
circumstances specified in paragraph 20(e); and
(iii) if ownership of the property is shared with a
third party, only income received from their share
of the property can be counted.
(cc) The amount of rental income from property
received before any management fee was deducted
may be counted.
(d) Equity in a property cannot be used to meet the
financial requirement.
(e) Where the applicant and their partner are
resident outside the UK at the date of application,
rental income from a property in the UK that will
become their main residence if the application is
granted may only be counted under paragraph 13(c)
(i) and paragraph 13(d)(ii).
(f) Any future entitlement to a maintenance grant or
stipend of the type specified in paragraph 10(g) may
be counted as though the person had received the
annual amount of that grant or stipend in the 12
months prior to the date of application.
20A. When calculating the gross annual income from

pension under paragraph 13, the gross annual amount
of any pension received may be counted where the
pension has become a source of income at least 28
days prior to the date of application.
21. When calculating income under paragraphs 13 to
16, the following sources will not be counted:
(a) Loans and credit facilities.
(b) Income-related benefits: Income Support,
income-related Employment and Support Allowance,
Pension Credit, Housing Benefit, Council Tax Benefit
or Support (or any equivalent) and income-based
Jobseeker’s Allowance.
(c) The following contributory benefits: contributionbased Jobseeker’s Allowance, contribution-based
Employment and Support Allowance and Incapacity
Benefit.
(cc) Unemployability Allowance, Allowance for a
Lowered Standard of Occupation and Invalidity
Allowance under the War Pension Scheme.
(d) Child Benefit.
(e) Working Tax Credit.
(f) Child Tax Credit.
(ff) Universal Credit.
(g) Any other source of income not specified in this
appendix.
Other sources of income, financial support or funds
in exceptional circumstances
21A(1). Where paragraph GEN.3.1.(1) of Appendix FM
applies, the decision-maker is required to take into
account the sources of income, financial support or
funds specified in sub-paragraph (2).
(2) Subject to sub-paragraphs (3) to (8), the following
sources of income, financial support or funds will be
taken into account (in addition to those set out in, as
appropriate, paragraph E-ECP.3.2., E-LTRP. 3.2., EECC.2.2. or E-LTRC.2.2. of Appendix FM):
(a) a credible guarantee of sustainable financial
support to the applicant or their partner from a third

party;
(b) credible prospective earnings from the
sustainable employment or self-employment of the
applicant or their partner; or
(c) any other credible and reliable source of income
or funds for the applicant or their partner, which is
available to them at the date of application or which
will become available to them during the period of
limited leave applied for.
(3) Where the applicant is a child:
(a) other references in this paragraph to “applicant”
mean the “applicant’s parent” under paragraph EECC.1.6. or E-LTRC.1.6. of Appendix FM; and
(b) references in this paragraph to “partner” refer to
the “applicant’s parent’s partner” under those
paragraphs.
(4) The onus is on the applicant to satisfy the decisionmaker of the genuineness, credibility and reliability of
the source of income, financial support or funds relied
upon, on the basis of the information and evidence
provided, having regard (in particular, but without
limitation) to the factors set out below.
(5) The source of income, financial support or funds
must not be a loan, unless evidence submitted with the
application shows that:
(a) the source is a mortgage on a residential or
commercial property in the UK or overseas which at
the date of application is owned by the applicant,
their partner or both, or by the third party to whom
sub-paragraph (2)(a) refers;
(b) the mortgage is provided by a financial institution
regulated by the appropriate regulatory body for the
country in which that institution is operating; and
(c) the mortgage payments are reasonably
affordable by the person(s) responsible for them and
are likely to remain so for the period of limited leave
applied for.
(6) Any cash savings or any current financial investment
or product relied upon by the applicant under subparagraph (2)(c) must at the date of application be in
the name(s), and under the control, of the applicant,
their partner or both.

(7) Any cash savings relied upon by the applicant must
enable the financial requirement in paragraph EECP.3.1.(b), E-LTRP.3.1.(b), E-LTRP.3.7.(b), E-ECC.2.1.
(b), E-ECC.2.5.(b), E-LTRC.2.1.(b) or E-LTRC.2.5.(b) of
Appendix FM (as applicable) to be met, except that the
criteria in sub-paragraph (8)(c) apply in place of the
requirements in paragraphs 11 and 11A of this
Appendix.
(8) In determining the genuineness, credibility and
reliability of the source of income, financial support or
funds relied upon under sub-paragraph (2), the
decision-maker will take into account all the information
and evidence provided, and will consider (in particular):
(a) in respect of a guarantee of sustainable financial
support from a third party:
(i) whether the applicant has provided verifiable
documentary evidence from the third party in
question of their guarantee of financial support;
(ii) whether that evidence is signed, dated and
witnessed or otherwise independently verified;
(iii) whether the third party has provided
sufficient evidence of their general financial
situation to enable the decision-maker to assess
the likelihood of the guaranteed financial support
continuing for the period of limited leave applied
for;
(iv) whether the third party has provided
verifiable documentary evidence of the nature,
extent and duration of any current or previous
financial support which they have provided to the
applicant or their partner;
(v) the extent to which this source of financial
support is relied upon by the applicant to meet
the financial requirement in paragraph EECP.3.1., E-LTRP.3.1., E-LTRP.3.7., E-ECC.2.1.,
E-ECC.2.5., E-LTRC.2.1. or E-LTRC.2.5. of
Appendix FM (as applicable); and
(vi) the likelihood of a change in the third party’s
financial situation or in their relationship with the
applicant or the applicant’s partner during the
period of limited leave applied for.
(b) in respect of prospective earnings from
sustainable employment or self-employment of the

applicant or their partner:
(i) whether, at the date of application, a specific
offer of employment has been made, or a clear
basis for self-employment exists. In either case,
such employment or self-employment must be
expected to commence within three months of
the applicant’s arrival in the UK (if the applicant
is applying for entry clearance) or within three
months of the date of application (if the applicant
is applying for leave to remain);
(ii) whether the applicant has provided verifiable
documentary evidence of the offer of
employment or the basis for self-employment,
and, if so, whether that evidence:
(aa) is on the headed notepaper of the
company or other organisation offering the
employment, or of a company or other
organisation which has agreed to purchase
the goods or services of the applicant or their
partner as a self-employed person;
(bb) is signed, dated and witnessed or
otherwise independently verified;
(cc) includes (in respect of an offer of
employment) a signed or draft contract of
employment;
(dd) includes (in respect of self-employment)
any of a signed or draft contract for the
provision of goods or services; a signed or
draft partnership or franchise agreement; an
application to the appropriate authority for a
licence to trade; or details of the agreed or
proposed purchase or rental of business
premises;
(iii) whether, in respect of an offer of employment
in the UK, the applicant has provided verifiable
documentary evidence:
(aa) of a relevant employment advertisement
and employment application;
(bb) of the hours to be worked and the rate of
gross pay, which that evidence must
establish equals or exceeds the National
Living Wage or the National Minimum Wage
(as applicable, given the age of the person to

be employed) and equals or exceeds the
going rate for such work in that part of the
UK; and
(cc) which enables the decision-maker to
assess the reliability of the offer of
employment, including in light of the total
size of the workforce and the turnover
(annual gross income or sales) of the
relevant company or other organisation;
(iv) whether the applicant has provided verifiable
documentary evidence that at the date of
application, the person to be employed or selfemployed is in, or has recently been in,
sustained employment or self-employment of the
same or a similar type, of the same or a similar
level of complexity and at the same or a similar
level of responsibility;
(v) whether the applicant has provided verifiable
documentary evidence that the person to be
employed or self-employed has relevant
professional, occupational or educational
qualifications and that these are recognised in
the UK;
(vi) whether the applicant has provided verifiable
documentary evidence that the person to be
employed or self-employed has the level of
English language skills such prospective
employment or self-employment is likely to
require;
(vii) the extent to which this source of income is
relied upon by the applicant to meet the financial
requirement in paragraph E-ECP.3.1., ELTRP.3.1., E-LTRP.3.7., E-ECC.2.1., E-ECC.2.5.,
E-LTRC.2.1. or E-LTRC.2.5. of Appendix FM (as
applicable); and
(viii) where an offer of employment is relied
upon, and where the proposed employer is a
family member or friend of the applicant or their
partner, the likelihood of a relevant change in
that relationship during the period of limited
leave applied for.
(c) in respect of any other credible and reliable
source of income or funds for the applicant or their
partner:

(i) whether the applicant has provided verifiable
documentary evidence of the source;
(ii) whether that evidence is provided by a
financial institution regulated by the appropriate
regulatory body for the country in which that
institution is operating, and is signed, dated and
witnessed or otherwise independently verified;
(iii) where the income is or the funds are based
on, or derived from, ownership of an asset,
whether the applicant has provided verifiable
documentary evidence of its current or previous
ownership by the applicant, their partner or both;
(iv) whether the applicant has provided sufficient
evidence to enable the decision-maker to assess
the likelihood of the source of income or funds
being available to them during the period of
limited leave applied for; and
(v) the extent to which this source of income or
funds is relied upon by the applicant to meet the
financial requirement in paragraph E-ECP.3.1.,
E-LTRP.3.1., E-LTRP.3.7., E-ECC.2.1., EECC.2.5., E-LTRC.2.1. or E-LTRC.2.5. of
Appendix FM (as applicable).
Evidence of Marriage or Civil Partnerships
22. A marriage in the United Kingdom must be
evidenced by a valid marriage certificate recognised
under the laws of England and Wales, Scotland or
Northern Ireland.
23. (a) A divorce in England and Wales must be
evidenced by either a decree absolute or a final order.
(b) A divorce in Scotland must be evidenced by a
decree of divorce.
(c) A divorce in Northern Ireland must be evidenced by
a decree absolute.
24. A civil partnership in the United Kingdom must be
evidenced by a civil partnership certificate.
25. The dissolution of a civil partnership in the UK must
be evidenced by a final order of civil partnership
dissolution from a civil court.

26. Marriages, civil partnerships or evidence of divorce
or dissolution from outside the UK must be evidenced
by a reasonable equivalent to the evidence detailed in
paragraphs 22 to 25, valid under the law in force in the
relevant country.
Evidence of the Applicant Living Overseas with a
Crown Servant
26A. Where:
(a) An applicant for entry clearance, limited leave to
enter or remain or indefinite leave to remain as a
partner under Appendix FM (except as a fiancé(e) or
proposed civil partner) or Appendix Settlement
Family Life intends to enter or remain in the UK to
begin their probationary period (or has done so) and
then to live outside the UK for the time being with
their sponsor (or is doing so or has done so) before
the couple live together permanently in the UK; and
(b) the sponsor, who is a British Citizen or settled in
the UK, is an employee of the UK Government, a
Northern Ireland department, the Scottish
Administration or the Welsh Government, or a
permanent member of the British Council on a tour
of duty outside the UK,
the applicant must provide a letter on official
stationery from the sponsor’s head of mission
confirming the information at (a) and (b) and
confirming the start date and expected end date of
the sponsor’s tour of duty outside the UK.
Evidence of English Language Requirements
27. The evidence required of passing an English
language test in speaking and listening (at a minimum
of level A1 or A2 (as the case may be) of the Common
European Framework of Reference for Languages) with
a provider approved by the Secretary of State, where
the applicant relies on that pass to meet an English
language requirement, is confirmation on the on-line
verification system operated by an approved English
language test provider and at an approved Secure
English Language Test centre that:

(i) the applicant has passed such a test; and
(ii) that test was an English language test in
speaking and listening which is approved by the
Secretary of State and was taken no more than two
years before the date of application and at a test
centre approved by the Secretary of State as a
Secure English Language Test Centre or if they
have already shown they met the requirement in this
manner at the level required for their current
application, in a previous successful application for
entry clearance or permission to stay.
28. The evidence required to show that a person is a
citizen or national of a majority English speaking country
is a valid passport or travel document, unless
paragraphs 29 and 30 apply. A dual national may invoke
either of their nationalities.
29. If the applicant has not provided their passport or
travel document other evidence of nationality can be
supplied in the following circumstances only (as
indicated by the applicant on their application form):
(a) where the passport or travel document has been
lost or stolen;
(b) where the passport or travel document has
expired and been returned to the relevant
authorities; or
(c) where the passport or travel document is with
another part of the Home Office.
30. Alternative evidence as proof of nationality, if
acceptable, must be either:
(a) A current national identity document; or
(b) A letter from the applicant’s national government,
Embassy or High Commission confirming the
applicant’s full name, date of birth and nationality.
31. Evidence of an academic qualification under
paragraphs 284(ix)(c), (d) and (e), 290 (viii) (c), (d) and
(e) and 295D(xi)(c), (d) and (e) of Part 8 and
paragraphs E-ECP.4.1.(c), E-LTRP.4.1.(c), E-LTRP.4.1A.
(c), E-ECPT.4.1.(c), E-LTRPT.5.1.(c) and E-LTRPT.5.1A.
(c) of Appendix FM must be:
(a) a certificate issued by the relevant institution
confirming the award of the academic qualification
showing:

(i) the applicant’s name;
(ii) the title of award;
(iii)the date of award; and
(iv)the name of the awarding institution; or
(b) if the applicant is awaiting graduation or no
longer has the certificate and cannot obtain a new
one, either:
(i) an academic reference from the institution
awarding the academic qualification that:
1) is on official letter headed paper;
2) shows the applicant’s name;
3) shows the title of award;
4) explains when the academic qualification
has been, or will be, awarded; and
5) confirms either the date that the certificate
will be issued (if the applicant has not yet
graduated) or that the institution is unable to
re-issue the certificate of award; or
(ii) an academic transcript that:
(1) is on official letter headed paper;
(2) shows the applicant’s name;
(3) shows the name of the academic
institution;
(4) shows the course title; and
(5) confirms either the date that the
certificate will be issued (if the applicant has
not yet graduated) or that the institution is
unable to re-issue the certificate of award;
and
(c) if the qualification was awarded by an
educational establishment outside the UK, a
document from the qualification and language
assessments provider which confirms that the
qualification meets or exceeds the recognised
standard of a Bachelor’s or Master’s degree or PhD
in the UK and was taught or researched in English
to level A1 or A2 (as the case may be) of the
Common Framework of Reference for Languages or
above.

32. If the qualification was taken in one of the following
countries, it will be assumed for the purpose of
paragraph 31 that it was taught or researched in
English: Antigua and Barbuda, Australia, the Bahamas,
Barbados, Belize, the British Overseas Territories,
Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Ireland, Jamaica, New
Zealand, St Kitts and Nevis, St Lucia, St Vincent and
the Grenadines, Trinidad and Tobago, the UK, the USA,
Malta.
32A. For the avoidance of doubt paragraphs 27 to 32D
of this Appendix apply to fiancé(e), proposed civil
partner, spouse, civil partner, unmarried partner and
same sex partner applications for limited leave to enter
or remain made under Part 8 of these Rules where
English language requirements apply, regardless of the
date of application. Paragraphs 27 to 32D of this
Appendix also apply to spouse, civil partner, unmarried
partner and same sex partner applications which do not
meet the requirements of Part 8 of these Rules for
indefinite leave to remain (where the application is for
indefinite leave to remain) and are being considered for
a grant of limited leave to remain where paragraph
A277A(b) of these Rules applies. Any references in
paragraphs 27 to 32D of this Appendix to “limited leave
to enter or remain” shall therefore be read as referring
to all applicants referred to in this paragraph.
32B. Where the decision-maker has:
(a) reasonable cause to doubt that an English
language test in speaking and listening at a
minimum of level A1 or A2 (as the case may be) of
the Common Framework of Reference for
Languages relied on at any time to meet a
requirement for limited leave to enter or remain in
Part 8 or Appendix FM was genuinely obtained; or
(b) information that the test certificate or result
awarded to the applicant has been withdrawn by the
test provider for any reason,
the decision-maker may discount the test certificate
or result and require the applicant to provide a new
test certificate or result from an approved provider
which shows that they meet the requirement, if they
are not exempt from it.
32C. If an applicant applying for limited leave to enter or
remain under Part 8 or Appendix FM submits an English

language test certificate or result which has ceased by
the date of application to be:
(a) from an approved test provider, or
(b) in respect of an approved test, or
(c) from an approved test centre, the decision-maker
will not accept that certificate or result as valid,
unless the decision-maker does so in accordance
with paragraph 32D of this Appendix and subject to
any transitional arrangements made in respect of
the test provider, test or test centre in question.
32D. If an applicant applying for limited leave to enter or
remain under Part 8 or Appendix FM submits an English
language test certificate or result and the Home Office
has already accepted it as part of a successful previous
application in any route (but not where the application
was refused, even if on grounds other than the English
language requirement), the decision-maker will accept
that certificate or result as valid if it is:
(a) from a provider which is no longer approved, or
(b) from a provider who remains approved but the
test the applicant has taken with that provider is no
longer approved, or
(c) from a test centre which is no longer approved,
or
(d) past its validity date (if a validity date is required),
provided that it is at or above the requisite level of
the Common European Framework of Reference for
Languages and when the subsequent application is
made the award to the applicant does not fall within
the circumstances set out in paragraph 32B of this
Appendix.
Adult dependent relatives
33. DELETED.
34. DELETED
35. DELETED.
36. DELETED.
37. DELETED.

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

© Crown copyright

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business
Mobility routes
The Global Business Mobility routes are for
workers based outside the UK who are
undertaking a temporary work assignment
in the UK as a Senior or Specialist Worker,
Graduate Trainee, UK Expansion Worker,
Service Supplier or Secondment Worker.

Appendix Global Business Mobility –
Senior or Specialist Worker
The Global Business Mobility – Senior or Specialist
Worker route is for overseas workers who are
undertaking temporary work assignments in the UK,
where the worker is a senior manager or specialist
employee and is being assigned to a UK business
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 1 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

linked to their employer overseas. This type of
assignment is often called an intra-company transfer or
ICT.
A partner and dependent children can apply to come to
the UK on this route.
The Global Business Mobility – Senior or Specialist
Worker route is not a route to settlement.
Validity requirements for Global Business Mobility –
Senior or Specialist Worker (“Senior or Specialist
Worker”)
SNR 1.1. A person applying for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a Senior or Specialist Worker
must apply online on the gov.uk website on the specified
form as follows:
(a) for applicants outside the UK, form “Global
Business Mobility visa”; or
(b) for applicants inside the UK, form “Global
Business Mobility”.
SNR 1.2. An application for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a Senior or Specialist Worker
must meet all the following requirements:
(a) any fee and Immigration Health Charge must
have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other travel document which satisfactorily
establishes their identity and nationality; and
(d) the applicant must have a Certificate of
Sponsorship that was issued to them by their
sponsor no more than 3 months before the date of
application.
SNR 1.3. The applicant must be aged 18 or over on the
date of application.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 2 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

SNR 1.4. An applicant applying for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a Senior or Specialist Worker who
has received an award from a Government or
international scholarship agency in the 12 months
before the date of application which covers both fees
and living costs for study in the UK, must have provided
written consent to the application from that Government
or agency.
SNR 1.5. If applying for permission to stay, the applicant
must be in the UK on the date of application.
SNR 1.5ZA. If applying for permission to stay, the
applicant must not have, or have last been granted,
permission:
(a) as a Visitor; or
(b) as a Short-term Student; or
(c) as a Parent of a Child Student; or
(d) as a Seasonal Worker; or
(e) as a Domestic Worker in a Private Household; or
(f) outside the Immigration Rules.
SNR 1.5A. An applicant who is applying for permission
to stay and has, or last had, permission as a Student,
must fulfil one of the Conditions A, B or C below on the
date of application:
(a) Condition A: the applicant must have completed
the course of study for which the Confirmation of
Acceptance for Studies was assigned (or a course to
which ST 27.3 of Appendix Student applies); or
(b) Condition B:
(i) the applicant must be studying a full-time
course of study at degree level or above with a
higher education provider which has a track
record of compliance; and
(ii) the Certificate of Sponsorship in SNR 1.2(d)
must have a start date no earlier than the course
completion date; or
(c) Condition C:
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 3 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

(i) the applicant must be studying a full-time
course of study leading to the award of a PhD
with a higher education provider which has a
track record of compliance; and
(ii) the Certificate of Sponsorship in SNR 1.2(d)
must have a start date no earlier than 24 months
after the start date of that course.
SNR 1.6. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for a Senior or Specialist Worker
may be rejected as invalid and not considered.
Suitability requirements for a Senior or Specialist
Worker
SNR 2.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
SNR 2.2. If applying for permission to stay the applicant
must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.
Eligibility requirements for a Senior or Specialist
Worker
Entry requirements for a Senior or Specialist Worker
SNR 3.1. A person seeking to come to the UK as a
Senior or Specialist Worker must apply for and obtain
entry clearance as a Senior or Specialist Worker before
their arrival in the UK.
SNR 3.2. A person applying for entry clearance as a
Senior or Specialist Worker must, if Appendix
Tuberculosis applies, provide a valid medical certificate
confirming that they have undergone screening for
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 4 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

active pulmonary tuberculosis and that this tuberculosis
is not present in them.
Points requirement for a Senior or Specialist Worker
SNR 4.1. The applicant must be awarded all 60 points in
the table below:
Points requirements

Relevant rules

Points

Sponsorship

SNR 5.1. to SNR
5.9.

20

Job at an appropriate skill
level

SNR 6.1. to SNR
6.7.

20

Salary at required level

SNR 7.1. to SNR
9.3.

20

Points for Sponsorship for a Senior or Specialist
Worker
SNR 5.1. The applicant must have a valid certificate of
sponsorship for the job they are planning to do, which to
be valid must:
(a) confirm the applicant’s name, that they are being
sponsored as a Senior or Specialist Worker, details
of the job, salary and any allowances the sponsor is
offering them (if applicable) and PAYE details if HM
Revenue and Customs (HMRC) requires income tax
and national insurance for the sponsored job to be
paid via PAYE; and
(b) include a start date for the job, stated by the
sponsor, which is no more than 3 months after the
date of application; and
(c) not have been used in a previous application
which was either granted or refused (but can have
been used in a previous application which was
rejected as invalid, made void or withdrawn); and
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 5 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

(d) not have been withdrawn by the sponsor or
cancelled by the Home Office; and
(e) unless the applicant is applying as a high earner,
confirm that the applicant has worked outside the
UK for the sponsor group for the period required at
SNR 5.7.(b); and
(f) confirm whether the Academic Technology
Approval Scheme (ATAS) requirement in Appendix
ATAS applies.
SNR 5.2. The sponsor must be authorised by the Home
Office to sponsor a Senior or Specialist Worker.
SNR 5.3. The sponsor must be listed as A-rated on the
Home Office’s register of licensed sponsors, unless the
applicant was last granted permission as a Senior or
Specialist Worker and is applying to continue working
for the same sponsor as in their last permission.
SNR 5.4. The sponsor must have paid in full any
required Immigration Skills Charge.
SNR 5.5. The decision maker must not have reasonable
grounds to believe the job the applicant is being
sponsored to do:
(a) does not exist; or
(b) is a sham; or
(c) has been created mainly so the applicant can
apply for entry clearance or permission to stay.
SNR 5.6. The decision maker must not have reasonable
grounds to believe the job the applicant is being
sponsored to do amounts to:
(a) the hire of the applicant to a third party who is not
the sponsor to fill a position with that party, whether
temporary or permanent; or
(b) contract work to undertake an ongoing routine
role or to provide an ongoing routine service for a
third party who is not the sponsor, regardless of the
nature or length of any arrangement between the
sponsor and the third party.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 6 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

SNR 5.6A. The decision maker must not have
reasonable grounds to believe the job the applicant is
being sponsored to do does not comply with the
National Minimum Wage Regulations or the Working
Time Regulations.
SNR 5.7. An applicant as a Senior or Specialist Worker
must:
(a) be currently working for the sponsor group; and
(b) unless they are applying as a high earner must
have worked outside the UK for the sponsor group
for a cumulative period of at least 12 months.
SNR 5.8. In SNR 5.7.(b) the 12 months’ work outside
the UK can have been accumulated over any period
provided that:
(a) the applicant was continuously working for the
sponsor group , whether in or out of the UK, from the
start of the 12 months to the date of application; and
(b) any breaks in the continuous work in SNR 5.8.(a)
were only for the following reasons:
(i) statutory maternity, paternity, parental, or
shared parental leave; or
(ii) statutory adoption leave; or
(iii) sick leave; or
(iv) assisting with a national or international
humanitarian or environmental crisis, with the
agreement of the sponsor group; or
(v) taking part in legally organised industrial
action; or
(vi) jury service; or
(vii) attending court as a witness.
SNR 5.9. If the requirements in SNR 5.1. to SNR 5.8.
are met, the applicant will be awarded 20 points for
sponsorship.
Points for job at appropriate skill level for a Senior
or Specialist Worker
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 7 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

SNR 6.1. The applicant must be sponsored for a job in a
SOC 2020 occupation code listed in Table 2 or Table 3
of Appendix Skilled Occupations, unless the conditions
at SNR 6.7. are met.
SNR 6.2. The sponsor must have chosen an
appropriate SOC 2020 occupation code, and the
decision maker must not have reasonable grounds to
believe the sponsor has chosen a less appropriate SOC
2020 occupation code for any of the following reasons:
(a) the most appropriate SOC 2020 occupation code
is not eligible under the Global Business Mobility
routes; or
(b) the most appropriate SOC 2020 occupation code
has a higher going rate than the proposed salary.
SNR 6.3. To support the assessment in SNR 6.2., the
decision maker may, in particular, consider:
(a) whether the sponsor has shown a genuine need
for the job as described; and
(b) whether the applicant has the appropriate skills,
qualifications and experience needed to do the job
as described; and
(c) the sponsor’s history of compliance with the
immigration system including, but not limited to,
paying its sponsored workers appropriately; and
(d) any additional information from the sponsor.
SNR 6.4. If the ATAS requirement in Appendix ATAS
applies, the applicant must provide a valid ATAS
certificate.
SNR 6.5. If the requirements in SNR 6.1. to SNR 6.4.
are met, the applicant will be awarded 20 points for a
job at the appropriate skill level, subject to SNR 6.6.
SNR 6.6. No points will be awarded for a job at the
appropriate skill level if the applicant is not also being
awarded 20 points for sponsorship under SNR 5.9.
Transitional arrangements for job at appropriate
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 8 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

skill level for a Senior or Specialist Worker
SNR 6.7. If the date of application is before 4 April 2030,
the applicant was granted permission as a Senior or
Specialist Worker under the Rules in place before 4
April 2024, and they have had continuous permission as
a Senior or Specialist Worker since then (except that
where the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded), they may be sponsored for a job in a SOC
2020 occupation code listed in Table 2b of Appendix
Skilled Occupations.
SNR 6.8. The SOC 2020 occupation code referred to in
SNR 6.7. are the following:
(a) 3411 Artists; or
(b) 3412 Authors, writers and translators; or
(c) 3413 Actors, entertainers and presenters; or
(d) 3414 Dancers and choreographers; or
(e) 3422 Product, clothing and related designers.
Points for salary for a Senior or Specialist Worker
SNR 7.1. The salary for the job for which the applicant is
being sponsored must equal or exceed both:
(a) the general salary requirement in SNR 8.1. and
SNR 8.2. unless the conditions at SNR 8.3. are met;
and
(b) the going rate requirement in SNR 9.1. to SNR
9.3.
SNR 7.2. Salary under these requirements includes
only:
(a) guaranteed basic gross pay (before income tax
and including employee pension and national
insurance contributions); and
(b) allowances which are guaranteed to be paid for
the duration of the applicant’s employment in the UK
(such as London weighting) or are paid as a mobility
premium or to cover the additional cost of living in
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 9 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

the UK.
SNR 7.3. Where allowances under SNR 7.2.(b) are
solely for the purpose of accommodation they will only
be taken into account up to a value of 30% of the total
salary package
SNR 7.4. Salary does not include other pay and
benefits, such as any of the following:
(a) flexible working where the nature of the job
means that hours fluctuate and pay cannot be
guaranteed; or
(b) additional pay such as shift, overtime or bonus
pay, whether or not it is guaranteed; or
(c) employer pension and national insurance
contributions; or
(d) any allowances, other than those specified in
SNR 7.2.(b); or
(e) in-kind benefits, such as equity shares, health
insurance, school or university fees, company cars
or food; or
(f) one-off payments, such as ‘golden hellos’; or
(g) any payments relating to immigration costs, such
as the fee or Immigration Health Charge; or
(h) payments to cover business expenses, including
(but not limited to) travel to and from the applicant’s
country of residence, equipment, clothing, travel or
subsistence.
SNR 7.5. If the requirements in SNR 7.1. to SNR 7.4.
are met, the applicant will be awarded 20 points for
salary at the required level, subject to SNR 9.5.
SNR 7.6. No points will be awarded for salary if the
applicant is not also being awarded 20 points for
sponsorship under SNR 5.9.
General salary requirement for a Senior or
Specialist Worker
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 10 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

SNR 8.1. The general salary requirement is £52,500 per
year, unless SNR 8.3 applies.
SNR 8.2. If the applicant is being sponsored to work
more than 48 hours a week, subject to SNR 8.2A, only
the salary for the first 48 hours a week will be
considered towards the general salary requirement.
For example, an applicant who works 60 hours a week
for £20 per hour will be considered to have a salary of
£49,920 (£20 x 48 x 52) per year and not £62,400 (£20
x 60 x 52).
SNR 8.2A. If the applicant is being sponsored to work a
pattern where the regular hours are not the same each
week, resulting in uneven pay:
(a) work in excess of 48 hours in some weeks can
be considered towards the salary threshold of
£52,500, providing the average over a regular cycle
(which can be less than, but not more than, 17
weeks) is not more than 48 hours a week; and
(b) any unpaid rest weeks will count towards the
average when considering whether the salary
thresholds are met; and
(c) any unpaid rest weeks will not count as absences
from employment for the purpose of paragraph SUI
36.1. in Part Suitability of these rules.
For example, an applicant who works a pattern of 60
hours a week for £20 per hour for two weeks, followed
by an unpaid rest week, will be considered to work 40
hours a week on average and have a salary of just
£41,600 (£20 x 40 x 52) per year.
Transitional general salary requirement for a Senior
or Specialist Worker
SNR 8.3. The applicant does not need to meet the
general salary requirement if the applicant is applying
for permission to stay and was previously granted
permission as a Tier 2 (Intra-Company Transfer) Migrant
under the rules in force before 6 April 2011, or as a
Work Permit Holder and since then has continuously
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 11 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

had permission as a Senior or Specialist Worker
(including any period of overstaying disregarded under
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability).
Going rate requirement for a Senior or Specialist
Worker
SNR 9.1. If the applicant is being sponsored for a job in
one of the SOC 2020 occupation codes listed in Table 2
or Table 2b of Appendix Skilled Occupations, the going
rate requirement is 100% of the pro-rated going rate,
which will be calculated as follows:
1 x (the going rate for the SOC 2020 occupation code
stated in Table 2 or Table 2b of Appendix Skilled
Occupations) x (the number of weekly working hours
stated by the sponsor ÷ 37.5).
SNR 9.2. If the applicant is being sponsored for a job in
one of the health or education SOC 2020 occupation
codes listed in Table 3 of Appendix Skilled Occupations,
the going rate requirement is 100% of the pro-rated
going rate (and the going rate will be pro-rated
according to the number of weekly working hours stated
by the sponsor, and the pro-rating set out in Appendix
Skilled Occupations).
SNR 9.3. The applicant’s full weekly hours will be
included when checking their salary against the going
rate, even if they work more than 48 hours a week.
For example, an applicant who works 60 hours a week
in a SOC 2020 occupation code with a going rate of
£75,000 must be paid £120,000 (1 x £75,000 x 60 ÷
37.5) per year, not £96,000 (1 x £75,000 x 48 ÷ 37.5).
Genuineness requirement for a Senior or Specialist
Worker
SNR 9A.1. The applicant must:
(a) genuinely intend, and be able, to undertake the
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 12 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

role for which they are being sponsored; and
(b) not intend to undertake employment other than in
the role for which they are being sponsored, or as
otherwise permitted by SNR 13.1.
Financial requirement for a Senior or Specialist
Worker
SNR 10.1. If the applicant is applying for permission to
stay and has been living in the UK with permission for
12 months or longer on the date of application, they will
meet the financial requirement and do not need to show
funds.
SNR 10.2. If the applicant is applying for entry clearance
or has been living in the UK for less than 12 months on
the date of application either:
(a) the applicant must have funds of at least £1,270;
or
(b) the applicant’s A-rated sponsor must confirm on
the Certificate of Sponsorship that they will, if it is
necessary, maintain and accommodate the applicant
up to the end of the first month of their employment
to an amount of at least £1,270.
SNR 10.3. If SNR 10.2.(a) applies, the applicant must
show that they have held the required level of funds for
a 28-day period and as set out in Appendix Finance.
Maximum length of assignments requirement for a
Senior or Specialist Worker
SNR 11.1. If the applicant is applying as a high earner,
the grant of permission must not lead to the applicant
being granted cumulative periods of permission on the
Global Business Mobility routes and Intra-Company
routes totalling more than 9 years in any 10-year period.
SNR 11.2. If the applicant is not applying as a high
earner, the grant of permission must not lead to the
applicant being granted cumulative periods of
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 13 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

permission on the Global Business Mobility routes and
Intra-Company routes totalling more than 5 years in any
6-year period.
SNR 11.3. When calculating the cumulative periods of
permission referred to in SNR 11.1., SNR 11.2, and
SNR 13.2. the following are included:
(a) all previous periods of permission granted on the
Global Business Mobility routes; and
(b) all previous periods of permission granted on the
Intra-Company routes; and
(c) if the applicant does not currently hold
permission in the Global Business Mobility routes,
any permission they could be granted under the
current application, beginning on the start date of the
job stated on the Certificate of Sponsorship; and
(d) if the applicant is applying for permission to stay
and has, or last had, permission on the Global
Business Mobility routes, any permission they could
be granted under the current application, beginning
on the date of decision; and
(e) any period of permission on the Global Business
Mobility routes and the Intra-Company routes
extended under section 3C of the Immigration Act
1971.
Transitional arrangements for maximum length of
assignments as a Senior or Specialist Worker
SNR 11.4. SNR 11.4. SNR 11.1. to SNR 11.3. do not
apply and there is no maximum period of permission if
the applicant is applying for permission to stay and was
previously granted permission as a Tier 2 (IntraCompany Transfer) Migrant under the rules in force
before 6 April 2011, or as a Work Permit Holder and
since then has continuously had permission as a Senior
or Specialist Worker (including any period of overstaying
disregarded under the Exceptions for overstayers
section of Part Suitability).

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 14 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

Decision on an application as a Senior or Specialist
Worker
SNR 12.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all the
suitability and eligibility requirements for a Senior or
Specialist Worker are met the application will be
granted, otherwise the application will be refused.
SNR 12.2. If the application is refused the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.
Period and conditions of grant as a Senior or
Specialist Worker
SNR 13.1. The grant will be subject to all the following
conditions:
(a) no access to public funds; and
(b) only the following work is permitted:
(i) the job for which the applicant is being
sponsored; and
(ii) if the applicant is applying for permission to
stay and was previously granted permission on
the Intra-Company routes under the rules in
force before 11 April 2022 and since then has
continuously had permission as a Senior or
Specialist Worker (including any period of
overstaying disregarded under the Exceptions
for overstayers section of Part Suitability),
supplementary employment is permitted; and
(iii) voluntary work is permitted; and
(iv) working out a contractual notice period is
permitted, where the applicant was lawfully
working in that job in the UK on the date of
application; and
(c) study is permitted, subject to the ATAS condition
in Appendix ATAS.
(d) DELETED
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 15 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

SNR 13.2. Subject to SNR 13.4., permission will be
granted for a period which is the shortest of the
following:
(a) 5 years after the start date of the job detailed in
the Certificate of Sponsorship; or
(b) 14 days after the end date of the job detailed in
the Certificate of Sponsorship; or
(c) if the applicant is applying as a high earner, the
date at which the applicant will have had cumulative
permission on the Global Business Mobility routes
and Intra-Company routes totalling 9 years in any
10-year period; or
(d) if the applicant is not applying as a high earner,
the date at which the applicant will have had
cumulative permission on the Global Business
Mobility routes and Intra-Company routes totalling 5
years in any 6-year period.
SNR 13.3. If the applicant does not currently hold
permission on the Global Business Mobility routes, any
permission granted for the period between the date of
decision and the start date of the job detailed in the
Certificate of Sponsorship will be excluded from the
cumulative permission for the purpose of determining
the period of grant of permission under SNR 13.2. (but
not from the cumulative period in SNR 11.3.).
Transitional arrangements for period of grant as a
Senior or Specialist Worker
SNR 13.4. If the conditions in SNR 13.5. are met, SNR
13.2. does not apply, and permission will be granted for
a period which is the shortest of the following:
(a) 5 years after the start date of the job detailed in
the Certificate of Sponsorship; or
(b) 14 days after the end date of the job detailed in
the Certificate of Sponsorship.
SNR 13.5. The conditions referred to in SNR 13.4. are
the applicant is applying for permission to stay and was
previously granted permission as a Tier 2 (Intrahttps://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 16 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

Company Transfer) Migrant under the rules in force
before 6 April 2011, or as a Work Permit Holder and
since then has continuously had permission as a Senior
or Specialist Worker (including any period of overstaying
disregarded under the Exceptions for overstayers
section of Part Suitability).
Dependent Partner (“partner”) and dependent child
(“child”) of a Senior or Specialist Worker
Validity requirements for a partner or child of a
Senior or Specialist Worker
SNR 14.1. A person applying for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a partner or child of a Senior or
Specialist Worker must apply online on the gov.uk
website on the specified form as follows:
Applicant

Specified form

Applicants outside the UK

Dependant partner visa
Dependant child visa

Applicants inside the UK

Dependant partner
Dependant child

SNR 14.2. An application for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a partner or child of a Senior or
Specialist Worker must meet all the following
requirements:
(a) any fee and Immigration Health Charge must
have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required;
(c) the applicant must have provided either a
passport or other travel document which
satisfactorily establishes their identity and
nationality; and
(d) the applicant must be applying as partner or child
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 17 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

of a person who:
(i) has made a valid application for entry
clearance or permission to stay in the UK on the
Global Business Mobility – Senior or Specialist
Worker route that has not been decided; or
(ii) has entry clearance or permission to stay on
the Global Business Mobility – Senior or
Specialist Worker route.
SNR 14.3. A person applying as a partner must be aged
18 or over on the date of application.
SNR 14.4. If applying for permission to stay, the
applicant must be in the UK on the date of application.
SNR 14.4ZA. If applying for permission to stay, the
applicant must not have, or have last been granted,
permission:
(a) as a Visitor; or
(b) as a Short-term Student; or
(c) as a Parent of a Child Student; or
(d) as a Seasonal Worker; or
(e) as a Domestic Worker in a Private Household; or
(f) outside the Immigration Rules.
SNR 14.4A. An applicant who is applying for permission
to stay and has, or last had, permission as a Student,
must fulfil one of the Conditions A or B below on the
date of application:
(a) Condition A: the applicant must have completed
the course of study for which the Confirmation of
Acceptance for Studies was assigned (or a course to
which ST 27.3 of Appendix Student applies); or
(b) Condition B: the applicant must:
(i) be studying a full-time course of study leading
to the award of a PhD with a higher education
provider which has a track record of compliance;
and
(ii) have completed at least 24 months of study
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 18 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

on that course.
SNR 14.5. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for a partner or child of a Senior or
Specialist Worker may be rejected as invalid and not
considered.
Suitability requirements for a partner or child of a
Senior or Specialist Worker
SNR 15.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
SNR 15.2.If applying for permission to stay the applicant
must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.
Eligibility requirements for a partner or child of a
Senior or Specialist Worker
Entry requirement for a partner or child of a Senior
or Specialist Worker
SNR 16.1. A person seeking to come to the UK as a
partner or child must apply for and obtain entry
clearance as a partner or child of a Senior or Specialist
Worker before they arrive in the UK.
SNR 16.2. A person applying for entry clearance as the
partner or child of a Senior or Specialist Worker must, if
Appendix Tuberculosis applies, provide a valid medical
certificate confirming that they have undergone
screening for active pulmonary tuberculosis and that this
tuberculosis is not present in them.
Relationship requirement for a partner of a Senior or
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 19 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

Specialist Worker
SNR 17.1. The applicant must be the partner of a
person (P) where one of the following applies:
(a) P has permission as a Senior or Specialist
Worker; or
(b) P is, at the same time, applying for (and is
granted) entry clearance or permission as a Senior
or Specialist Worker.
SNR 17.2. The requirements of Appendix Relationship
with Partner must be met.
SNR 17.3. DELETED
SNR 17.4. DELETED
Relationship requirement for a child of a Senior or
Specialist Worker
SNR 18.1. DELETED.
SNR 18.2. DELETED.
SNR 18.3. DELETED.
Care requirement for a child of a Senior or
Specialist Worker
SNR 19.1. DELETED.
Age requirement for a child of a Senior or Specialist
Worker
SNR 20.1. DELETED.
SNR 20.2. DELETED.
Requirements for a dependent child of a Senior or
Specialist Worker
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 20 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

SNR 20A.1. The applicant must meet the following
requirements for a dependent child in Appendix
Children:
(a) relationship requirement: entry clearance and
permission to stay; and
(b) care requirement; and
(c) age and independent life requirement.
Financial requirement for a partner or child of a
Senior or Specialist Worker
SNR 21.1. If the applicant is applying for permission to
stay and has been living in the UK with permission for
12 months or longer on the date of application, they will
meet the financial requirement and do not need to show
funds.
SNR 21.2. If the applicant is applying for entry
clearance, or is applying for permission to stay and has
not been in the UK for 12 months on the date of
application, either:
(a) funds of at least the amount required in SNR
21.3. must be held collectively by one or more of the
following:
(i) the applicant; and
(ii) the Senior or Specialist Worker (P); and
(iii) if the applicant is applying as a child, their
parent who is lawfully present in the UK or being
granted entry clearance, or permission to stay, at
the same time; or
(b) the sponsor of P must confirm on the Certificate
of Sponsorship that they will, if necessary, maintain
and accommodate the partner and/or any child, as
well as P, up to the end of the first month of each of
their permission, up to at least the amounts in SNR
21.3.
SNR 21.3. The required funds are:
(a) £285 for a partner in the UK or applying for entry
clearance; and
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 21 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

(b) £315 for the first child in the UK or applying for
entry clearance; and
(c) £200 for any other child in the UK or applying for
entry clearance.
SNR 21.4. If SNR 21.2.(a) applies, the funds held must
be held in addition to any funds required for the Senior
or Specialist Worker to meet the financial requirement
and the funds required for any dependants in the UK or
applying at the same time.
SNR 21.5. If SNR 21.2.(a) applies, the funds must have
been held for a 28-day period and as specified in
Appendix Finance.
Decision on an application as a partner or child of a
Senior or Specialist Worker
SNR 22.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all the
suitability and eligibility requirements are met for a
partner or child of a Senior or Specialist Worker the
application will be granted, otherwise the application will
be refused.
SNR 22.2. If the application is refused the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.
Period of grant and conditions for a partner or child
of a Senior or Specialist Worker
SNR 23.1. A partner will be granted permission which
ends on the same date as the person who is their
partner and has permission as a Senior or Specialist
Worker.
SNR 23.2. A child will be granted permission which ends
on the same date as whichever of their parents’
permission ends first.
SNR 23.3. The grant will be subject to all the following
conditions:
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 22 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

(a) no access to public funds; and
(b) work (including self-employment and voluntary
work) permitted; except for employment as a
professional sportsperson (including as a sports
coach); and
(c) study is permitted, subject to the ATAS condition
in Appendix ATAS.
(d) DELETED

Appendix Global Business Mobility –
Graduate Trainee
The Global Business Mobility- Graduate Trainee route is
for overseas workers who are undertaking temporary
work assignments in the UK, where the worker is on a
graduate training course leading to a senior
management or specialist position and is required to do
a work placement in the UK. This type of assignment is
often called an intra-company transfer- graduate trainee
or ICT.
A dependent partner and dependent children can apply
to come to the UK on this route.
The Global Business Mobility – Graduate Trainee route
is not a route to settlement.
Validity requirements for a Global Business Mobility
– Graduate Trainee (“Graduate Trainee”)
GTR 1.1. A person applying for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a Graduate Trainee must apply
online on the gov.uk website on the specified form as
follows:
(a) for applicants outside the UK, form “Global
Business Mobility visa”; or
(b) for applicants inside the UK, form “Global
Business Mobility”.
GTR 1.2. An application for entry clearance or
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 23 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

permission to stay as a Graduate Trainee must meet all
the following requirements:
(a) any fee and Immigration Health Charge must
have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other travel document which satisfactorily
establishes their identity and nationality; and
(d) the applicant must have a Certificate of
Sponsorship that was issued to them by their
sponsor no more than three months before the date
of application.
GTR 1.3. The applicant must be aged 18 or over on the
date of application.
GTR 1.4. An applicant applying for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a Graduate Trainee who has
received an award from a Government or international
scholarship agency in the 12 months before the date of
application which covers both fees and living costs for
study in the UK, must have provided written consent to
the application from that Government or agency.
GTR 1.5. If applying for permission to stay, the applicant
must be in the UK on the date of application.
GTR 1.5ZA. If applying for permission to stay, the
applicant must not have, or have last been granted,
permission:
(a) as a Visitor; or
(b) as a Short-term Student; or
(c) as a Parent of a Child Student; or
(d) as a Seasonal Worker; or
(e) as a Domestic Worker in a Private Household; or
(f) outside the Immigration Rules.
GTR 1.5A. An applicant who is applying for permission
to stay and has, or last had, permission as a Student,
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 24 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

must fulfil one of the Conditions A, B or C below on the
date of application:
(a) Condition A: the applicant must have completed
the course of study for which the Confirmation of
Acceptance for Studies was assigned (or a course to
which ST 27.3 of Appendix Student applies); or
(b) Condition B:
(i) the applicant must be studying a full-time
course of study at degree level or above with a
higher education provider which has a track
record of compliance; and
(ii) the Certificate of Sponsorship in GTR 1.2(d)
must have a start date no earlier than the course
completion date; or
(c) Condition C:
(i) the applicant must be studying a full-time
course of study leading to the award of a PhD
with a higher education provider which has a
track record of compliance; and
(ii) the Certificate of Sponsorship in GTR 1.2(d)
must have a start date no earlier than 24 months
after the start date of that course.
GTR 1.6. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for a Graduate Trainee may be
rejected as invalid and not considered.
Suitability requirements for a Graduate Trainee
GTR 2.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
GTR 2.2. If applying for permission to stay the applicant
must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 25 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

Eligibility requirements for a Graduate Trainee
Entry requirements for a Graduate Trainee
GTR 3.1. A person seeking to come to the UK as a
Graduate Trainee must apply for and obtain entry
clearance as a Graduate Trainee before their arrival in
the UK.
GTR 3.2. A person applying for entry clearance as a
Graduate Trainee must, if Appendix Tuberculosis
applies, provide a valid medical certificate confirming
that they have undergone screening for active
pulmonary tuberculosis and that this tuberculosis is not
present in them.
Points requirement for a Graduate Trainee
GTR 4.1. The applicant must be awarded all 60 points in
the table below:
Points requirements

Relevant rules

Points

Sponsorship

GTR 5.1. to GTR
5.7.

20

Job at an appropriate skill
level

GTR 6.1. to GTR
6.7.

20

Salary at required level

GTR 7.1. to GTR
9.3.

20

Points for Sponsorship for a Graduate Trainee
GTR 5.1. The applicant must have a valid certificate of
sponsorship for the job they are planning to do, which to
be valid must:
(a) confirm the applicant’s name, that they are being
sponsored as a Graduate Trainee, details of the job,
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 26 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

salary and any allowances the sponsor is offering
them (if applicable) and PAYE details if HM Revenue
and Customs (HMRC) requires income tax and
national insurance for the sponsored job to be paid
via PAYE; and
(b) include a start date for the job, stated by the
sponsor, which is no more than 3 months after the
date of application; and
(c) not have been used in a previous application
which was either granted or refused (but can have
been used in a previous application which was
rejected as invalid, made void or withdrawn); and
(d) not have been withdrawn by the sponsor or
cancelled by the Home Office; and
(e) confirm that the applicant has worked for the
sponsor group for the period required at GTR 5.6.
(b); and
(f) confirm whether the Academic Technology
Approval Scheme (ATAS) requirement in Appendix
ATAS applies.
GTR 5.2. The sponsor must be authorised by the Home
Office to sponsor a Graduate Trainee.
GTR 5.3. The sponsor must be listed as A-rated on the
Home Office’s register of licensed sponsors, unless the
applicant was last granted permission as a Graduate
Trainee and is applying to continue working for the
same sponsor as in their last permission.
GTR 5.4. The decision maker must not have reasonable
grounds to believe the job the applicant is being
sponsored to do:
(a) does not exist; or
(b) is a sham; or
(c) has been created mainly so the applicant can
apply for entry clearance or permission to stay.
GTR 5.5. The decision maker must not have reasonable
grounds to believe the job the applicant is being
sponsored to do amounts to:
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 27 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

(a) the hire of the applicant to a third party who is not
the sponsor to fill a position with that party, whether
temporary or permanent; or
(b) contract work to undertake an ongoing routine
role or to provide an ongoing routine service for a
third party who is not the sponsor, regardless of the
nature or length of any arrangement between the
sponsor and the third party.
GTR 5.5A. The decision maker must not have
reasonable grounds to believe the job the applicant is
being sponsored to do does not comply with the
National Minimum Wage Regulations or the Working
Time Regulations.
GTR 5.6. An applicant as a Graduate Trainee must:
(a) be currently working for the sponsor group; and
(b) have worked outside the UK for the sponsor
group for a continuous period of at least 3 months
immediately before the date of application.
GTR 5.7. If the requirements in GTR 5.1. to GTR 5.6.
are met, the applicant will be awarded 20 points for
sponsorship.
Points for job at appropriate skill level for a
Graduate Trainee
GTR 6.1. The applicant must be sponsored for a job in a
SOC 2020 occupation code listed in Table 2 or Table 3
of Appendix Skilled Occupations.
GTR 6.1A. If the date of application is before 4 April
2030, the applicant was granted permission as a
Graduate Trainee under the Rules in place before 4
April 2024, and they have had continuous permission as
a Graduate Trainee since then (except that where the
Exceptions for overstayers section of Part Suitability
applies, that period of overstaying will be disregarded),
they may be sponsored for a job in a SOC 2020
occupation code listed in Table 2b of Appendix Skilled
Occupations.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 28 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

GTR 6.2. The sponsor must have chosen an
appropriate SOC 2020 occupation code, and the
decision maker must not have reasonable grounds to
believe the sponsor has chosen a less appropriate SOC
2020 occupation code for any of the following reasons:
(a) the most appropriate SOC 2020 occupation code
is not eligible under the Global Business Mobility
routes; or
(b) the most appropriate SOC 2020 occupation code
has a higher going rate than the proposed salary.
GTR 6.3. To support the assessment in GTR 6.2. the
decision maker may, in particular, consider:
(a) whether the sponsor has shown a genuine need
for the job as described; and
(b) whether the applicant has the appropriate skills,
qualifications and experience needed to do the job
as described; and
(c) the sponsor’s history of compliance with the
immigration system including, but not limited to,
paying its sponsored workers appropriately; and
(d) any additional information from the sponsor.
GTR 6.4. The job must be part of a structured graduate
training programme, with clearly defined progression
towards a managerial or specialist role within the
sponsor organisation.
GTR 6.5. If the ATAS requirement in Appendix ATAS
applies, the applicant must provide a valid ATAS
certificate.
GTR 6.6. If the requirements in GTR 6.1. to GTR 6.5.
are met, the applicant will be awarded 20 points for a
job at the appropriate skill level, subject to GTR 6.7.
GTR 6.7. No points will be awarded for a job at the
appropriate skill level if the applicant is not also being
awarded 20 points for sponsorship under GTR 5.7.
Points for salary for a Graduate Trainee
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 29 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

GTR 7.1. The salary for the job for which the applicant is
being sponsored must equal or exceed both:
(a) the general salary requirement in GTR 8.1. and
GTR 8.2.; and
(b) the going rate requirement in GTR 9.1. to GTR
9.3.
GTR 7.2. Salary under these requirements includes
only:
(a) guaranteed basic gross pay (before income tax
and including employee pension and national
insurance contributions); and
(b) allowances which are guaranteed to be paid for
the duration of the applicant’s employment in the UK
(such as London weighting) or are paid as a mobility
premium or to cover the additional cost of living in
the UK.
GTR 7.3. Where allowances under GTR 7.2.(b) are
solely for the purpose of accommodation they will only
be taken into account up to a value of 40% of the total
salary package.
GTR 7.4. Salary does not include other pay and
benefits, such as any of the following:
(a) flexible working where the nature of the job
means that hours fluctuate and pay cannot be
guaranteed; or
(b) additional pay such as shift, overtime or bonus
pay, whether or not it is guaranteed; or
(c) employer pension and national insurance
contributions; or
(d) any allowances, other than those specified in
GTR 7.2.(b); or
(e) in-kind benefits, such as equity shares, health
insurance, school or university fees, company cars
or food; or
(f) one-off payments, such as ‘golden hellos’; or
(g) any payments relating to immigration costs, such
as the fee or Immigration Health Charge; or
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 30 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

(h) payments to cover business expenses, including
(but not limited to) travel to and from the applicant’s
country of residence, equipment, clothing, travel or
subsistence.
GTR 7.5. If the requirements in GTR 7.1. to GTR 7.4.
are met, the applicant will be awarded 20 points for
salary at the required level, subject to GTR 7.6.
GTR 7.6. No points will be awarded for salary if the
applicant is not also being awarded 20 points for
sponsorship under GTR 5.7.
General salary requirement for a Graduate Trainee
GTR 8.1. The general salary requirement is £27,300 per
year.
GTR 8.2. If the applicant is being sponsored to work
more than 48 hours a week, subject to GTR 8.3, only
the salary for the first 48 hours a week will be
considered towards the general salary requirement.
For example, an applicant who works 60 hours a week
for £8 per hour will be considered to have a salary of
£19,968 (£8 x 48 x 52) per year and not £24,960 (£8 x
60 x 52).
GTR 8.3. If the applicant is being sponsored to work a
pattern where the regular hours are not the same each
week, resulting in uneven pay:
(a) work in excess of 48 hours in some weeks can
be considered towards the salary threshold of
£27,300, providing the average over a regular cycle
(which can be less than, but not more than, 17
weeks) is not more than 48 hours a week; and
(b) any unpaid rest weeks will count towards the
average when considering whether the salary
thresholds are met; and
(c) any unpaid rest weeks will not count as absences
from employment for the purpose of paragraph SUI
36.1. in Part Suitability of these rules.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 31 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

For example, an applicant who works a pattern of 45
hours a week for £15 per hour for two weeks, followed
by an unpaid rest week, will be considered to work 30
hours a week on average and have a salary of just
£23,400 (£15 x 30 x 52) per year.
Going rate requirement for a Graduate Trainee
GTR 9.1. If the applicant is being sponsored for a job in
one of the SOC 2020 occupation codes listed in Table 2
or Table 2b of Appendix Skilled Occupations, the going
rate requirement is 70% of the pro-rated going rate,
which will be calculated as follows:
0.7 x (the going rate for the occupation code stated in
Table 2 or Table 2b of Appendix Skilled Occupations) x
(the number of weekly working hours stated by the
sponsor ÷ 37.5).
GTR 9.2. If the applicant is being sponsored for a job in
one of the health or education SOC 2020 occupation
codes listed in Table 3 of Appendix Skilled Occupations,
the going rate requirement is 100% of the pro-rated
going rate (and the going rate will be pro-rated
according to the number of weekly working hours stated
by the sponsor, and the pro-rating set out in Appendix
Skilled Occupations).
GTR 9.3. The applicant’s full weekly hours will be
included when checking their salary against the going
rate, even if they work more than 48 hours a week.
For example, an applicant who works 60 hours a week
in a SOC 2020 occupation code with a going rate of
£37,500 must be paid £42,000 (0.7 x £37,500 x 60 ÷
37.5) per year, not £33,600 (0.7 x £37,500 x 48 ÷ 37.5).
Genuineness requirement for a Graduate Trainee
GTR 9A.1. The applicant must:
(a) genuinely intend, and be able, to undertake the
role for which they are being sponsored; and
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 32 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

(b) not intend to undertake employment other than in
the role for which they are being sponsored, or as
otherwise permitted by GTR 13.1.
Financial requirement for a Graduate Trainee
GTR 10.1. If the applicant is applying for permission to
stay and has been living in the UK with permission for
12 months or longer on the date of application, they will
meet the financial requirement and do not need to show
funds.
GTR 10.2. If the applicant is applying for entry clearance
or has been living in the UK for less than 12 months on
the date of application either:
(a) the applicant must have funds of at least £1,270;
or
(b) the applicant’s A-rated sponsor must confirm on
the Certificate of Sponsorship that they will, if it is
necessary, maintain and accommodate the applicant
up to the end of the first month of their employment
to an amount of at least £1,270.
GTR 10.3. If GTR 10.2.(a) applies, the applicant must
show that they have held the required level of funds for
a 28-day period and as set out in Appendix Finance.
Maximum length of assignments requirement for a
Graduate Trainee
GTR 11.1. The grant of permission must not lead to the
applicant being granted cumulative periods of
permission on the Global Business Mobility routes and
Intra-Company routes totalling more than 5 years in any
6-year period.
GTR 11.2. When calculating the cumulative periods of
permission referred to in GTR 11.1. and GTR 13.2.(c),
the decision maker will include the following:
(a) all previous permission on the Global Business
Mobility routes; and
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 33 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

(b) all previous permission on the Intra-Company
routes; and
(c) if the applicant does not currently hold
permission on a Global Business Mobility route, any
permission they could be granted under the current
application, beginning on the start date of the job
stated on the Certificate of Sponsorship; and
(d) if the applicant is applying for permission to stay
and has or last had permission on a Global Business
Mobility route, any permission they could be granted
under the current application, beginning on the date
of decision; and
(e) any period of permission on the Global Business
Mobility routes and the Intra-Company routes
extended under section 3C of the Immigration Act
1971.
Decision on an application as a Graduate Trainee
GTR 12.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all the
suitability and eligibility requirements for a Graduate
Trainee are met the application will be granted,
otherwise the application will be refused.
GTR 12.2. If the application is refused the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.
Period and conditions of grant as a Graduate
Trainee
GTR 13.1. The grant will be subject to all the following
conditions:
(a) no access to public funds; and
(b) the only work permitted is:
(i) in the job for which the applicant is being
sponsored; and
(ii) voluntary work; and
(iii) working out a contractual notice period,
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 34 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

where the applicant was lawfully working in that
job in the UK on the date of application; and
(c) study is permitted, subject to the ATAS condition
in Appendix ATAS.
(d) DELETED
GTR 13.2. Permission will be granted for a period which
is the shortest of the following:
(a) 1 year after the start date of the job detailed in
the Certificate of Sponsorship; or
(b) 14 days after the end date of the job detailed in
the Certificate of Sponsorship; or
(c) the date at which the applicant will have had
cumulative permission in the Global Business
Mobility routes and Intra-Company routes totalling 5
years in any 6-year period.
GTR 13.3. If the applicant does not currently hold
permission on the Global Business Mobility routes, any
permission granted for the period between the date of
decision and the start date of the job detailed in the
Certificate of Sponsorship will be excluded from the
cumulative permission for the purpose of determining
the period of grant of permission under GTR 13.2. (but
not from the cumulative period in GTR 11.2.).
Dependent Partner (“partner”) or dependent child
(“child”) of a Global Business Mobility - Graduate
Trainee
Validity requirements for a partner or child of a
Graduate Trainee
GTR 14.1. A person applying for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a partner or child of a Graduate
Trainee must apply online on the gov.uk website on the
specified form as follows:
Applicant

Specified form

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 35 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

Applicants outside the UK

Dependant partner visa
Dependant child visa

Applicants inside the UK

Dependant partner
Dependant child

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

GTR 14.2. An application for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a partner or child of a Graduate
Trainee must meet all the following requirements:
(a) any fee and Immigration Health Charge must
have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided either a
passport or other travel document which
satisfactorily establishes their identity and
nationality; and
(d) the applicant must be applying as partner or child
of a person who:
(i) has made a valid application for entry
clearance or permission to stay in the UK on the
Global Business Mobility – Graduate Trainee
route that has not been decided; or
(ii) has entry clearance or permission to stay on
the Global Business Mobility – Graduate Trainee
route.
GTR 14.3. A person applying as a partner must be aged
18 or over on the date of application.
GTR 14.4. If applying for permission to stay, the
applicant must be in the UK on the date of application.
GTR 14.4ZA. If applying for permission to stay, the
applicant must not have, or have last been granted,
permission:
(a) as a Visitor; or
(b) as a Short-term Student; or
(c) as a Parent of a Child Student; or
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 36 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

(d) as a Seasonal Worker; or
(e) as a Domestic Worker in a Private Household; or
(f) outside the Immigration Rules.
GTR 14.4A. An applicant who is applying for permission
to stay and has, or last had, permission as a Student,
must fulfil one of the Conditions A or B below on the
date of application:
(a) Condition A: the applicant must have completed
the course of study for which the Confirmation of
Acceptance for Studies was assigned (or a course to
which ST 27.3 of Appendix Student applies); or
(b) Condition B: the applicant must:
(i) be studying a full-time course of study leading
to the award of a PhD with a higher education
provider which has a track record of compliance;
and
(ii) have completed at least 24 months of study
on that course.
GTR 14.5. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for a partner or child of a Graduate
Trainee may be rejected as invalid and not considered.
Suitability requirements for a partner or child of a
Graduate Trainee
GTR 15.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
GTR 15.2. If applying for permission to stay the
applicant must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.
Eligibility requirements for a partner or child of a
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 37 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

Graduate Trainee
Entry requirement for a partner or child of a
Graduate Trainee
GTR 16.1. A person seeking to come to the UK as a
partner or child must apply for and obtain entry
clearance as a partner or child of a Graduate Trainee
before they arrive in the UK.
GTR 16.2. A person applying for entry clearance as the
partner or child of a Graduate Trainee must, if Appendix
Tuberculosis applies, provide a valid medical certificate
confirming that they have undergone screening for
active pulmonary tuberculosis and that this tuberculosis
is not present in them.
Relationship requirement for a partner of a Graduate
Trainee
GTR 17.1. The applicant must be the partner of a
person (P) where one of the following applies:
(a) P has permission as a Graduate Trainee; or
(b) P is, at the same time, applying for (and is
granted) entry clearance or permission as a
Graduate Trainee.
GTR 17.2. The requirements of Appendix Relationship
with Partner must be met.
GTR 17.3. DELETED
GTR 17.4. DELETED
Relationship requirement for a child of a Graduate
Trainee
GTR 18.1. DELETED.
GTR 18.2. DELETED.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 38 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

GTR 18.3. DELETED.
Care requirement for a child of a Graduate Trainee
GTR 19.1. DELETED.
Age requirement for a child of a Graduate Trainee
GTR 20.1. DELETED.
GTR 20.2. DELETED.
Requirements for a dependent child of a Graduate
Trainee
GTR 20A.1. The applicant must meet the following
requirements for a dependent child in Appendix
Children:
(a) relationship requirement: entry clearance and
permission to stay; and
(b) care requirement; and
(c) age and independent life requirement.
Financial requirement for a partner or child of a
Graduate Trainee
GTR 21.1. If the applicant is applying for permission to
stay and has been living in the UK with permission for
12 months or longer on the date of application, they will
meet the financial requirement and do not need to show
funds.
GTR 21.2. If the applicant is applying for entry
clearance, or is applying for permission to stay and has
not been in the UK for 12 months on the date of
application, either:
(a) funds of at least the amount required in GTR
21.3 must be held collectively by one or more of the
following:
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 39 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

(i) the applicant; and
(ii) the Graduate Trainee (P); and
(iii) if the applicant is applying as a child, their
parent who is lawfully present in the UK or being
granted entry clearance, or permission to stay at
the same time as the applicant; or
(b) the sponsor of P must confirm on the Certificate
of Sponsorship that they will, if necessary, maintain
and accommodate the partner and/or any child as
well as P, up to the end of the first month of each of
their permission, up to at least the amounts in GTR
21.3.
GTR 21.3. The required funds are:
(a) £285 for a partner in the UK or applying for entry
clearance; and
(b) £315 for the first child in the UK or applying for
entry clearance; and
(c) £200 for any other child in the UK or applying for
entry clearance.
GTR 21.4. If GTR 21.2.(a) applies, the funds held must
be held in addition to any funds required for the
Graduate Trainee to meet the financial requirement and
the funds required for any dependants in the UK or
applying at the same time.
GTR 21.5. If GTR 21.2.(a) applies, the funds must have
been held for a 28-day period and as specified in
Appendix Finance.
Decision on an application as a partner or child of a
Graduate Trainee
GTR 22.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all the
suitability and eligibility requirements are met for a
partner or child of a Graduate Trainee the application
will be granted, otherwise the application will be refused.
GTR 22.2. If the application is refused the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 40 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

Administrative Review.
Period and conditions of grant for a partner or child
of a Graduate Trainee
GTR 23.1. A partner will be granted permission which
ends on the same date as the person (P) who is their
partner and has permission of a Graduate Trainee.
GTR 23.2. A child will be granted permission which ends
on the same date as whichever of their parents’
permission ends first.
GTR 23.3. The grant will be subject to all the following
conditions:
(a) no access to public funds; and
(b) work (including self-employment and voluntary
work) permitted; except for employment as a
professional sportsperson (including as a sports
coach); and
(c) study is permitted, subject to the ATAS condition
in Appendix ATAS.
(d) DELETED

Appendix Global Business Mobility – UK
Expansion Worker
The Global Business Mobility – UK Expansion Worker
route is for overseas workers who are undertaking
temporary work assignments in the UK, where the
worker is a senior manager or specialist employee and
is being assigned to the UK to undertake work related to
a business’s expansion to the UK.
This route can only be used when the business has not
yet begun trading in the UK. If the business is already
trading in the UK, workers should apply under Appendix
Global Business Mobility – Senior or Specialist Worker
instead.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 41 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

A dependent partner and dependent children can apply
to come to the UK on this route.
The Global Business Mobility – UK Expansion Worker
route is not a route to settlement.
Validity requirements for a Global Business Mobility
- UK Expansion Worker (“UK Expansion Worker”)
UKX 1.1. A person applying for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a UK Expansion Worker must
apply online on the gov.uk website on the specified form
as follows:
(a) for applicants outside the UK, form “Global
Business Mobility visa”; or
(b) for applicants inside the UK, form “Global
Business Mobility”.
UKX 1.2. An application for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a UK Expansion Worker must
meet all the following requirements:
(a) any fee and Immigration Health Charge must
have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics when
required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other travel document which satisfactorily
establishes their identity and nationality; and
(d) the applicant must have a Certificate of
Sponsorship that was issued to them by their
sponsor no more than 3 months before the date of
application.
UKX 1.3. The applicant must be aged 18 or over on the
date of application.
UKX 1.4. An applicant applying for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a UK Expansion Worker who has
received an award from a Government or international
scholarship agency in the 12 months before the date of
application which covers both fees and living costs for
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 42 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

study in the UK, must have provided written consent to
the application from that Government or agency.
UKX 1.5. If applying for permission to stay, the applicant
must be in the UK on the date of application.
UKX 1.5ZA. If applying for permission to stay, the
applicant must not have, or have last been granted,
permission:
(a) as a Visitor; or
(b) as a Short-term Student; or
(c) as a Parent of a Child Student; or
(d) as a Seasonal Worker; or
(e) as a Domestic Worker in a Private Household; or
(f) outside the Immigration Rules.
UKX 1.5A. An applicant who is applying for permission
to stay and has, or last had, permission as a Student,
must fulfil one of the Conditions A, B or C below on the
date of application:
(a) Condition A: the applicant must have completed
the course of study for which the Confirmation of
Acceptance for Studies was assigned (or a course to
which ST 27.3 of Appendix Student applies); or
(b) Condition B:
(i) the applicant must be studying a full-time
course of study at degree level or above with a
higher education provider which has a track
record of compliance; and
(ii) the Certificate of Sponsorship in UKX 1.2(d)
must have a start date no earlier than the course
completion date; or
(c) Condition C:
(i) the applicant must be studying a full-time
course of study leading to the award of a PhD
with a higher education provider which has a
track record of compliance; and
(ii) the Certificate of Sponsorship in UKX 1.2(d)
must have a start date no earlier than 24 months
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 43 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

after the start date of that course.
UKX 1.6. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for a UK Expansion Worker may
be rejected as invalid and not considered.
Suitability requirements for a UK Expansion Worker
UKX 2.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
UKX 2.2. If applying for permission to stay the applicant
must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.
Eligibility requirements for a UK Expansion Worker
Entry requirements for a UK Expansion Worker
UKX 3.1. A person seeking to come to the UK as a UK
Expansion Worker must apply for and obtain entry
clearance as a UK Expansion Worker before their arrival
in the UK.
UKX 3.2. A person applying for entry clearance as a UK
Expansion Worker must, if Appendix Tuberculosis
applies, provide a valid medical certificate confirming
that they have undergone screening for active
pulmonary tuberculosis and that this tuberculosis is not
present in them.
Points requirement for a UK Expansion Worker
UKX 4.1. The applicant must be awarded all 60 points in
the table below:
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 44 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

Points requirements

Relevant rules

Points

Sponsorship

UKX 5.1. to UKX
5.8.

20

Job at an appropriate skill
level

UKX 6.1. to UKX
6.6.

20

Salary at required level

UKX 7.1. to UKX
9.3.

20

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

Points for Sponsorship for a UK Expansion Worker
UKX 5.1. The applicant must have a valid certificate of
sponsorship for the job they are planning to do, which to
be valid must:
(a) confirm the applicant’s name, that they are being
sponsored as a UK Expansion Worker, details of the
job, salary and any allowances the sponsor is
offering them (if applicable) and PAYE details if HM
Revenue and Customs (HMRC) requires income tax
and national insurance for the sponsored job to be
paid via PAYE; and
(b) include a start date for the job, stated by the
sponsor, which is no more than 3 months after the
date of application; and
(c) not have been used in a previous application
which was either granted or refused (but can have
been used in a previous application which was
rejected as invalid, made void or withdrawn); and
(d) not have been withdrawn by the sponsor or
cancelled by the Home Office; and
(e) confirm that the applicant has worked for the
sponsor group for the period required at UKX 5.6.
(b); and
(f) confirm whether the Academic Technology
Approval Scheme (ATAS) requirement in Appendix
ATAS applies.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 45 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

UKX 5.2. The sponsor must be authorised by the Home
Office to sponsor a UK Expansion Worker.
UKX 5.3. The sponsor must be listed as A-rated on the
Home Office’s register of licensed sponsors, unless one
of the following applies:
(a) the applicant was last granted permission as a
UK Expansion Worker and is applying to continue
working for the same sponsor as in their last
permission; or
(b) the applicant holds the role of authorising officer
on the sponsor’s licence and the sponsor has a
provisional rating on the Home Office’s register of
licenced sponsors.
UKX 5.4. The decision maker must not have reasonable
grounds to believe the job the applicant is being
sponsored to do:
(a) does not exist; or
(b) is a sham; or
(c) has been created mainly so the applicant can
apply for entry clearance or permission to stay.
UKX 5.5. The sponsor must choose an appropriate SOC
2020 occupation code, and the decision maker must not
have reasonable grounds to believe the job the
applicant is being sponsored to do amounts to:
(a) the hire of the applicant to a third party who is not
the sponsor to fill a position with that party, whether
temporary or permanent; or
(b) contract work to undertake an ongoing routine
role or to provide an ongoing routine service for a
third party who is not the sponsor, regardless of the
nature or length of any arrangement between the
sponsor and the third party.
UKX 5.5A. The decision maker must not have
reasonable grounds to believe the job the applicant is
being sponsored to do does not comply with the
National Minimum Wage Regulations or the Working
Time Regulations.
UKX 5.6. An applicant as a UK Expansion Worker must:
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 46 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

(a) be currently working for the sponsor group; and
(b) have worked outside the UK for the sponsor
group for a cumulative period of at least 12 months,
unless the applicant is either:
(i) applying as a high earner; or
(ii) a Japanese national seeking to establish a
UK branch or subsidiary of the sponsor group
under the UK-Japan Comprehensive Economic
Partnership Agreement; or
(iii) a national or permanent resident of Australia
seeking to establish a UK branch or subsidiary of
the sponsor group under the Free Trade
Agreement between the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland and Australia
(when the agreement comes into force or is
provisionally applied).
UKX 5.7. In UKX 5.6.(b) the 12 months’ work outside
the UK can have been accumulated over any period
provided that:
(a) the applicant was continuously working for the
business at UKX 5.6.(a), whether in or out of the UK,
from the start of the 12 months to the date of
application; and
(b) any breaks in the continuous work in UKX 5.7.(a)
were only for the following reasons:
(i) statutory maternity, paternity, parental, or
shared parental leave; or
(ii) statutory adoption leave; or
(iii) sick leave; or
(iv) assisting with a national or international
humanitarian or environmental crisis, with the
agreement of the sponsor group; or
(v) taking part in legally organised industrial
action; or
(vi) jury service; or
(vii) attending court as a witness.
UKX 5.8. If the requirements in UKX 5.1. to UKX 5.7.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 47 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

are met, the applicant will be awarded 20 points for
sponsorship.
Points for job at appropriate skill level for a UK
Expansion Worker
UKX 6.1. The applicant must be sponsored for a job in a
SOC 2020 occupation code listed in Table 2 or Table 3
of Appendix Skilled Occupations.
UKX 6.1A. UKX 6.1A. If the date of application is before
4 April 2030, the applicant was granted permission as a
UK Expansion Worker under the rules in place before 4
April 2024, and they have had continuous permission as
a UK Expansion Worker since then (except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part Suitability
applies, that period of overstaying will be disregarded),
they may be sponsored for a job in a SOC 2020
occupation code listed in Table 2b of Appendix Skilled
Occupations.
UKX 6.2. The decision maker must not have reasonable
grounds to believe the sponsor has chosen a less
appropriate SOC 2020 occupation code for any of the
following reasons:
(a) the most appropriate SOC 2020 occupation code
is not eligible under the Global Business Mobility
routes; or
(b) the most appropriate SOC 2020 occupation code
has a higher going rate than the proposed salary.
UKX 6.3. To support the assessment in UKX 6.2, the
decision maker may, in particular, consider:
(a) whether the sponsor has shown a genuine need
for the job as described; and
(b) whether the applicant has the appropriate skills,
qualifications and experience needed to do the job
as described; and
(c) the sponsor’s history of compliance with the
immigration system including, but not limited to,
paying its sponsored workers appropriately; and
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 48 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

(d) any additional information from the sponsor.
UKX 6.4. If the ATAS requirement in Appendix ATAS
applies, the applicant must provide a valid ATAS
certificate.
UKX 6.5. If the requirements in UKX 6.1. to UKX 6.4.
are met, the applicant will be awarded 20 points for a
job at the appropriate skill level, subject to
UKX 6.6. UKX 6.6. No points will be awarded for a job at
the appropriate skill level if the applicant is not also
being awarded 20 points for sponsorship under UKX
5.8.
Points for salary for a UK Expansion Worker
UKX 7.1. The salary for the job for which the applicant is
being sponsored must equal or exceed both:
(a) the general salary requirement in UKX 8.1 and
UKX 8.2; and
(b) the going rate requirement in UKX 9.1. to UKX
9.3.
UKX 7.2. Salary under these requirements includes
only:
(a) guaranteed basic gross pay (before income tax
and including employee pension and national
insurance contributions); and
(b) allowances which are guaranteed to be paid for
the duration of the applicant’s employment in the UK
(such as London weighting) or are paid as a mobility
premium or to cover the additional cost of living in
the UK.
UKX 7.3. Where allowances under UKX 7.2.(b) are
solely for the purpose of accommodation they will only
be taken into account up to a value of 30% of the total
salary package.
UKX 7.4. Salary does not include other pay and
benefits, such as any of the following:
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 49 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

(a) flexible working where the nature of the job
means that hours fluctuate and pay cannot be
guaranteed; or
(b) additional pay such as shift, overtime or bonus
pay, whether or not it is guaranteed; or
(c) employer pension and national insurance
contributions; or
(d) any allowances, other than those specified in
UKX 7.2.(b); or
(e) in-kind benefits, such as equity shares, health
insurance, school or university fees, company cars
or food; or
(f) one-off payments, such as ‘golden hellos’; or
(g) any payments relating to immigration costs, such
as the fee or Immigration Health Charge; or
(h) payments to cover business expenses, including
(but not limited to) travel to and from the applicant’s
country of residence, equipment, clothing, travel or
subsistence.
UKX 7.5. If the requirements in UKX 7.1. to UKX 7.4.
are met, the applicant will be awarded 20 points for
salary at the required level, subject to UKX 7.6.
UKX 7.6. No points will be awarded for salary if the
applicant is not also being awarded 20 points for
sponsorship under UKX 5.8.
General salary requirement for a UK Expansion
Worker
UKX 8.1. The general salary requirement is £52,500 per
year.
UKX 8.2. If the applicant is being sponsored to work
more than 48 hours a week, subject to UKX 8.3, only
the salary for the first 48 hours a week will be
considered towards the general salary requirement.
For example, an applicant who works 60 hours a week
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 50 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

for £20 per hour will be considered to have a salary of
£49,920 (£20 x 48 x 52) per year and not £62,400 (£20
x 60 x 52).
UKX 8.3. If the applicant is being sponsored to work a
pattern where the regular hours are not the same each
week, resulting in uneven pay:
(a) work in excess of 48 hours in some weeks can
be considered towards the salary threshold of
£52,500, providing the average over a regular cycle
(which can be less than, but not more than, 17
weeks) is not more than 48 hours a week; and
(b) any unpaid rest weeks will count towards the
average when considering whether the salary
thresholds are met; and
(c) any unpaid rest weeks will not count as absences
from employment for the purpose of paragraph SUI
36.1. in Part Suitability of these rules.
For example, an applicant who works a pattern of 60
hours a week for £20 per hour for two weeks, followed
by an unpaid rest week, will be considered to work 40
hours a week on average and have a salary of just
£41,600 (£20 x 40 x 52) per year.
Going rate requirement for a UK Expansion Worker
UKX 9.1. If the applicant is being sponsored for a job in
one of the SOC 2020 occupation codes listed in Table 2
or Table 2b of Appendix Skilled Occupations, the going
rate requirement is 100% of the pro-rated going rate,
which will be calculated as follows:
1 x (the going rate for the SOC 2020 occupation code
stated in Table 2 or Table 2b of Appendix Skilled
Occupations) x (the number of weekly working hours
stated by the sponsor ÷ 37.5).
UKX 9.2. If the applicant is being sponsored for a job in
one of the health or education SOC 2020 occupation
codes listed in Table 3 of Appendix Skilled Occupations,
the going rate requirement is 100% of the pro-rated
going rate (and the going rate will be pro-rated
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 51 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

according to the number of weekly working hours stated
by the sponsor, and the pro-rating set out in Appendix
Skilled Occupations).
UKX 9.3. The applicant’s full weekly hours will be
included when checking their salary against the going
rate, even if they work more than 48 hours a week.
For example, an applicant who works 60 hours a week
in a SOC 2020 occupation code with a going rate of
£75,000 must be paid £120,000 (1 x £75,000 x 60 ÷
37.5) per year, not £96,000 (1 x £75,000 x 48 ÷ 37.5).
Genuineness requirement for a UK Expansion
Worker
UKX 9A.1. The applicant must:
(a) genuinely intend, and be able, to undertake the
role for which they are being sponsored; and
(b) not intend to undertake employment other than in
the role for which they are being sponsored, or as
otherwise permitted by UKX 13.1.
Financial requirement for a UK Expansion Worker
UKX 10.1. If the applicant is applying for permission to
stay and has been living in the UK with permission for
12 months or longer on the date of application, they will
meet the financial requirement and do not need to show
funds.
UKX 10.2. If the applicant is applying for entry clearance
or has been living in the UK for less than 12 months, the
applicant must have funds of at least £1,270.
UKX 10.3. The applicant must show that they have held
the level of funds required by UKX 10.2. for a 28-day
period and as set out in Appendix Finance.
Maximum length of assignments requirement for a
UK Expansion Worker
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 52 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

UKX 11.1. The grant of permission must not lead to the
applicant being granted cumulative periods of
permission in the Global Business Mobility routes and
Intra-Company routes totalling more than 5 years in any
6-year period.
UKX 11.2. When calculating the cumulative periods of
permission referred to in UKX 11.1. and UKX 13.2.(d),
the decision maker will include the following:
(a) all previous periods of permission on the Global
Business Mobility routes; and
(b) all previous periods of permission on the IntraCompany routes; and
(c) if the applicant does not currently hold
permission on a Global Business Mobility route, any
permission they could be granted under this
application, beginning on the start date of the job
stated on the Certificate of Sponsorship; and
(d) if the applicant is applying for permission to stay
and has or last had permission on the Global
Business Mobility routes, any permission they could
be granted under this application, beginning on the
date of decision; and
(e) any period of permission on the Global Business
Mobility routes and the Intra-Company routes
extended under section 3C of the Immigration Act
1971.
Decision on an application as a UK Expansion
Worker
UKX 12.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all the
suitability and eligibility requirements for a UK
Expansion Worker are met the application will be
granted, otherwise the application will be refused.
UKX 12.2. If the application is refused the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 53 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

Period and conditions of grant as a UK Expansion
Worker
UKX 13.1. The grant will be subject to all the following
conditions:
(a) no access to public funds; and
(b) the only work permitted is:
(i) the job for which the applicant is being
sponsored; and
(ii) voluntary work; and
(iii) working out a contractual notice period,
where the applicant was lawfully working in that
job in the UK on the date of application; and
(c) study is permitted, subject to the ATAS condition
in Appendix ATAS.
(d) DELETED
UKX 13.2. Permission will be granted for a period which
is the shortest of the following:
(a) 1 year after the start date of the job detailed in
the Certificate of Sponsorship; or
(b) 14 days after the end date of the job detailed in
the Certificate of Sponsorship; or
(c) the date at which the applicant will have had
continuous permission as a UK Expansion Worker
totalling 2 years; or
(d) the date at which the applicant will have had
cumulative permission in the Global Business
Mobility routes totalling 5 years in any 6-year period.
UKX 13.3. If the applicant does not currently hold
permission on the Global Business Mobility routes, any
permission granted for the period between the date of
decision and the start date of the job detailed in the
Certificate of Sponsorship will be excluded from the
cumulative permission for the purpose of determining
the period of grant of permission under UKX 13.2. (but
not from the cumulative period in UKX 11.2.).
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 54 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

Dependent Partner (partner”) and dependent child
(“child”) of a UK Expansion Worker
Validity requirements for a partner or child of a UK
Expansion Worker
UKX 14.1. A person applying for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a partner or child of a UK
Expansion Worker must apply online on the gov.uk
website on the specified form as follows:
Applicant

Specified form

Applicants outside the UK

Dependant partner visa
Dependant child visa

Applicants inside the UK

Dependant partner
Dependant child

UKX 14.2. An application for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a partner or child of a UK
Expansion Worker must meet all the following
requirements:
(a) any fee and Immigration Health Charge must
have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided either a
passport or other travel document which
satisfactorily establishes their identity and
nationality; and
(d) the applicant must be applying as partner or child
of a person who:
(i) has made a valid application for entry
clearance or permission to stay on the Global
Business Mobility – UK Expansion Worker route
that has not been decided; or
(ii) has entry clearance or permission to stay on
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 55 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

the Global Business Mobility – UK Expansion
Worker route.
UKX 14.3. A person applying as a partner must be aged
18 or over on the date of application.
UKX 14.4. If applying for permission to stay, the
applicant must be in the UK on the date of application.
UKX 14.4ZA. If applying for permission to stay, the
applicant must not have, or have last been granted,
permission:
(a) as a Visitor; or
(b) as a Short-term Student; or
(c) as a Parent of a Child Student; or
(d) as a Seasonal Worker; or
(e) as a Domestic Worker in a Private Household; or
(f) outside the Immigration Rules.
UKX 14.4A. An applicant who is applying for permission
to stay and has, or last had, permission as a Student,
must fulfil one of the Conditions A or B below on the
date of application:
(a) Condition A: the applicant must have completed
the course of study for which the Confirmation of
Acceptance for Studies was assigned (or a course to
which ST 27.3 of Appendix Student applies); or
(b) Condition B: the applicant must:
(i) be studying a full-time course of study leading
to the award of a PhD with a higher education
provider which has a track record of compliance;
and
(ii) have completed at least 24 months of study
on that course.
UKX 14.5. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for a partner or child of a UK
Expansion Worker may be rejected as invalid and not
considered.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 56 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

Suitability requirements for a partner or child of a
UK Expansion Worker
UKX 15.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
UKX 15.2. If applying for permission to stay the
applicant must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.
Eligibility requirements for a partner or child of a UK
Expansion Worker
Entry requirement for a partner or child of a UK
Expansion Worker
UKX 16.1. A person seeking to come to the UK as a
partner or child must apply for and obtain entry
clearance as a partner or child of a UK Expansion
Worker before they arrive in the UK.
UKX 16.2. A person applying for entry clearance as the
partner or child of a UK Expansion Worker must, if
Appendix Tuberculosis applies, provide a valid medical
certificate confirming that they have undergone
screening for active pulmonary tuberculosis and that this
tuberculosis is not present in them.
Relationship requirement for a partner of a UK
Expansion Worker
UKX 17.1. The applicant must be the partner of a
person (P) where one of the following applies:
(a) P has permission on the Global Business
Mobility – UK Expansion Worker route; or
(b) P is, at the same time, applying for (and is
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 57 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

granted) entry clearance or permission on the Global
Business Mobility – UK Expansion Worker route.
UKX 17.2. The requirements of Appendix Relationship
with Partner must be met.
UKX 17.3. DELETED
UKX 17.4. DELETED
Relationship requirement for a child of a UK
Expansion Worker
UKX 18.1. DELETED.
UKX 18.2. DELETED.
UKX 18.3. DELETED.
Care requirement for a child of a UK Expansion
Worker
UKX 19.1. DELETED.
Age requirement for a child of a UK Expansion
Worker
UKX 20.1. DELETED.
UKX 20.2. DELETED.
Requirements for a dependent child of a UK
Expansion Worker
UKX 20A.1. The applicant must meet the following
requirements for a dependent child in Appendix
Children:
(a) relationship requirement: entry clearance and
permission to stay; and
(b) care requirement; and
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 58 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

(c) age and independent life requirement.
Financial requirement for a partner or child of a UK
Expansion Worker
UKX 21.1. If the applicant is applying for permission to
stay and has been living in the UK with permission for
12 months or longer on the date of application, they will
meet the financial requirement and do not need to show
funds.
UKX 21.2. If the applicant is applying for entry
clearance, or is applying for permission to stay and has
not been in the UK for 12 months on the date of
application, funds of at least the amount required in
UKX 21.3. must be held collectively by one or more of
the following:
(a) the applicant; and
(b) the UK Expansion Worker (P); and
(c) if the applicant is applying as a child, their parent
who is lawfully present in the UK or being granted
entry clearance, or permission to stay, at the same
time.
UKX 21.3. The required funds are:
(a) £285 for a partner in the UK or applying for entry
clearance; and
(b) £315 for the first child in the UK or applying for
entry clearance; and
(c) £200 for any other child in the UK or applying for
entry clearance.
UKX 21.4. If UKX 23.2.(a) applies, the funds held must
be held in addition to any funds required for the UK
Expansion Worker to meet the financial requirement and
the funds required for any dependants in the UK or
applying at the same time.
UKX 21.5. If UKX 23.2.(a) applies, the funds must have
been held for a 28-day period and as specified in
Appendix Finance.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 59 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

Decision on an application as a partner or child of a
UK Expansion Worker
UKX 22.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all the
suitability and eligibility requirements are met for a
partner or child of a UK Expansion Worker the
application will be granted, otherwise the application will
be refused.
UKX 22.2. If the application is refused the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.
Period and conditions of grant for a partner or child
of a UK Expansion Worker
UKX 23.1. A partner will be granted permission which
ends on the same date as the person (P) who is their
partner and has permission as a UK Expansion Worker.
UKX 23.2. A child will be granted permission which ends
on the same date as whichever of their parents’
permission ends first.
UKX 23.3. The grant will be subject to all the following
conditions:
(a) no access to public funds; and
(b) work (including self-employment and voluntary
work) permitted; except for employment as a
professional sportsperson (including as a sports
coach); and
(c) study is permitted, subject to the ATAS condition
in Appendix ATAS.
(d) DELETED

Appendix Global Business Mobility –
Service Supplier
The Global Business Mobility – Service Supplier route is
for overseas workers who are undertaking temporary
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 60 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

work assignments in the UK, where the worker is either
a contractual service supplier employed by an overseas
service provider or a self-employed independent
professional based overseas, and they need to
undertake an assignment in the UK to provide services
covered by one of the UK’s international trade
agreements.
A dependent partner and dependent children can apply
to come to the UK on this route.
The Global Business Mobility – Service Supplier route is
not a route to settlement.
Validity requirements for a Global Business Mobility
- Service Supplier (“Service Supplier”)
SSU 1.1. A person applying for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a Service Supplier must apply
online on the gov.uk website on the specified form as
follows:
(a) for applicants outside the UK, form “Global
Business Mobility visa”; or
(b) for applicants inside the UK, form “Global
Business Mobility”.
SSU 1.2. An application for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a Service Supplier must meet all
the following requirements:
(a) any fee and Immigration Health Charge must
have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other travel document which satisfactorily
establishes their identity and nationality; and
(d) the applicant must have a Certificate of
Sponsorship that was issued to them by their
sponsor no more than 3 months before the date of
application.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 61 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

SSU 1.3. The applicant must be aged 18 or over on the
date of application.
SSU 1.4. An applicant applying for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a Service Supplier who has
received an award from a Government or international
scholarship agency in the 12 months before the date of
application which covers both fees and living costs for
study in the UK, must have provided written consent to
the application from that Government or agency.
SSU 1.5. If applying for permission to stay, the applicant
must be in the UK on the date of application.
SSU 1.5ZA. If applying for permission to stay, the
applicant must not have, or have last been granted,
permission:
(a) as a Visitor; or
(b) as a Short-term Student; or
(c) as a Parent of a Child Student; or
(d) as a Seasonal Worker; or
(e) as a Domestic Worker in a Private Household; or
(f) outside the Immigration Rules.
SSU 1.5A. An applicant who is applying for permission
to stay and has, or last had, permission as a Student,
must fulfil one of the Conditions A, B or C below on the
date of application:
(a) Condition A: the applicant must have completed
the course of study for which the Confirmation of
Acceptance for Studies was assigned (or a course to
which ST 27.3 of Appendix Student applies); or
(b) Condition B:
(i) the applicant must be studying a full-time
course of study at degree level or above with a
higher education provider which has a track
record of compliance; and
(ii) the Certificate of Sponsorship in SSU 1.2(d)
must have a start date no earlier than the course
completion date; or
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 62 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

(c) Condition C:
(i) the applicant must be studying a full-time
course of study leading to the award of a PhD
with a higher education provider which has a
track record of compliance; and
(ii) the Certificate of Sponsorship in SSU 1.2(d)
must have a start date no earlier than 24 months
after the start date of that course.
SSU 1.6. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for a Service Supplier may be
rejected as invalid and not considered.
Suitability requirements for a Service Supplier
SSU 2.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
SSU 2.2. If applying for permission to stay the applicant
must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.
Eligibility requirements for a Service Supplier
Entry requirements for a Service Supplier
SSU 3.1. A person seeking to come to the UK as a
Service Supplier must apply for and obtain entry
clearance as a Service Supplier before their arrival in
the UK.
SSU 3.2. A person applying for entry clearance as a
Service Supplier must, if Appendix Tuberculosis applies,
provide a valid medical certificate confirming that they
have undergone screening for active pulmonary
tuberculosis and that this tuberculosis is not present in
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 63 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

them.
SSU 3.3. The number of granted applications (for both
entry clearance and permission to stay) to Indian
nationals for the job roles traditional chef, classical
musicians or a yoga instructor, must not have exceeded
1,800 in total, the annual total allocation of places for
the route (where the annual period begins on 1 January
and ends on 31 December of each year).
Points requirement for a Service Supplier
SSU 4.1. The applicant must be awarded all 40 points in
the table below:
Points requirements

Relevant
rules

Points

Sponsorship

SSU 5.1. to
SSU 5.7.

20

Job at an appropriate skill
level (option A) or
Job at an appropriate skill
level (option B)

SSU 6.1. to
SSU 6.6.
SSU 7.1. to
SSU 7.5.

20

SSU 4.2. An applicant as a Service Supplier can be
awarded 20 points by meeting the requirements of
either SSU 6.1. to SSU 6.6. or SSU 7.1. to SSU 7.5.
Points for Sponsorship for a Service Supplier
SSU 5.1. The applicant must have a valid certificate of
sponsorship for the job they are planning to do, which
must:
(a) confirm the applicant’s name, that they are being
sponsored as a Service Supplier, and details of the
job the sponsor is offering them; and
(b) include a start date for the job, stated by the
sponsor, which is no more than 3 months after the
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 64 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

date of application; and
(c) not have been used in a previous application
which was either granted or refused (but can have
been used in a previous application which was
rejected as invalid, made void or withdrawn); and
(d) not have been withdrawn by the sponsor or
cancelled by the Home Office; and
(e) DELETED
(f) confirm whether the Academic Technology
Approval Scheme (ATAS) requirement in Appendix
ATAS applies; and
(g) confirm which of the sponsor’s contracts
registered with the Home Office the applicant will
work on.
SSU 5.2. The sponsor must be authorised by the Home
Office to sponsor a Service Supplier.
SSU 5.3. The sponsor must be listed as A-rated on the
Home Office’s register of licensed sponsors, unless the
applicant was last granted permission as a Service
Supplier and is applying to continue working for the
same sponsor as in their last permission.
SSU 5.4. The sponsor must have a contract with an
overseas service provider, where that contract:
(a) has been registered with the Home Office; and
(b) is for a service covered by:
(i) one of the UK’s international trade
agreements (other than the Comprehensive and
Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific
Partnership (CPTPP)) where that agreement is
currently in force or provisionally applied; or;
(ii) the Comprehensive and Progressive
Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership
(CPTPP), where the Protocol on the Accession
of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland to that agreement has entered
into force for the UK, and both the country where
the overseas service provider is located, and the
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 65 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

country of which the service supplier is a
national, have ratified the UK’s accession to the
agreement.
(c) is the contract on which the applicant will work as
a Service Supplier.
SSU 5.5. The decision maker must not have reasonable
grounds to believe the job the applicant is being
sponsored to do:
(a) does not exist; or
(b) is a sham; or
(c) has been created mainly so the applicant can
apply for entry clearance or permission to stay.
SSU 5.6. The decision maker must not have reasonable
grounds to believe the job the applicant is being
sponsored to do amounts to:
(a) the hire of the applicant to a third party who is not
the sponsor to fill a position with that party, whether
temporary or permanent; or
(b) contract work to undertake an ongoing routine
role or to provide an ongoing routine service for a
third party who is not the sponsor, regardless of the
nature or length of any arrangement between the
sponsor and the third party.
SSU 5.6A. The decision maker must not have
reasonable grounds to believe the job the applicant is
being sponsored to do does not comply with the
National Minimum Wage Regulations or the Working
Time Regulations.
SSU 5.7. If the requirements in SSU 5.1. to SSU 5.6.
are met, the applicant will be awarded 20 points for
sponsorship.
Points for job at appropriate skill level for a Service
Supplier – Option A
SSU 6.1. The applicant must be sponsored for a job in
an SOC 2020 occupation code listed in Table 2 or Table
3 of Appendix Skilled Occupations.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 66 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

SSU 6.1A. If the date of application is before 4 April
2030, the applicant was granted permission as a
Service Supplier under the rules in place before 4 April
2024, and they have had continuous permission as a
Service Supplier since then (except that where the
Exceptions for overstayers section of Part Suitability
applies, that period of overstaying will be disregarded),
they may be sponsored for a job in a SOC 2020
occupation code listed in Table 2b of Appendix Skilled
Occupations.
SSU 6.2. The sponsor must choose an appropriate SOC
2020 occupation code, and the decision maker must not
have reasonable grounds to believe the sponsor has
chosen a less appropriate SOC 2020 occupation code
due to the most appropriate SOC 2020 occupation code
not being eligible under the Global Business Mobility
routes.
SSU 6.3. To support the assessment in SSU 6.2., the
decision maker may, in particular, consider:
(a) whether the sponsor has shown a genuine need
for the job as described; and
(b) whether the applicant has the appropriate skills,
qualifications and experience needed to do the job
as described; and
(c) the sponsor’s history of compliance with the
immigration system including, but not limited to,
paying its sponsored workers appropriately; and
(d) any additional information from the sponsor.
SSU 6.4. If the ATAS requirement in Appendix ATAS
applies, the applicant must provide a valid ATAS
certificate.
SSU 6.5. If the requirements in SSU 6.1. to SSU 6.4.
are met, the applicant will be awarded 20 points for a
job at the appropriate skill level, subject to SSU 6.6.
SSU 6.6. No points will be awarded for a job at the
appropriate skill level if the applicant is not also being
awarded 20 points for sponsorship under SSU 5.7.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 67 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

Points for job at appropriate skill level for a Service
Supplier – Option B
SSU 7.1. The applicant must have a university degree
or equivalent level technical qualification unless they are
employed by an overseas service provider supplying
one of the following services, in which case the
qualification requirements in the following table apply:
Services

Qualification

Fashion and modelling

None required

Chef de cuisine (providing
services under the
CARIFORUM-UK Economic
Partnership Agreement)

An advanced
technical
qualification

Entertainment services
(excluding audio-visual services
under the CARIFORUM-UK
Economic Partnership
Agreement)

None required

Management consulting services
and services related to
management consulting
(managers and senior
consultants)

University degree
(equivalent level
technical
qualification not
permitted)

Advertising or translation

Relevant
qualifications

Technical testing and analysis

University degree or
a relevant technical
qualification

SSU 7.2. The applicant must hold any professional
qualifications or registrations required to provide the
services under UK law or sectoral requirements.
SSU 7.3. The applicant must have professional
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 68 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

experience in the sector in which they will supply
services as follows:
(a) 3 years’ experience; or
(b) if they are supplying chef de cuisine services
under the CARIFORUM-UK Economic Partnership
Agreement, 6 years’ experience; or
(c) if they are a self-employed overseas service
provider, 6 years’ experience.
SSU 7.4. If the requirements in SSU 7.1. to SSU 7.3.
are met, the applicant will be awarded 20 points for a
job at the appropriate skill level, subject to SSU 7.5.
SSU 7.5. No points will be awarded for a job at the
appropriate skill level if the applicant is not also being
awarded 20 points for sponsorship under SSU 5.7.
Nationality requirement for a Service Supplier
SSU 8.1. The applicant must be:
(a) a national of the country or territory in which the
overseas service provider is based; or
(b) where the service that the applicant will provide
is covered by a commitment in the General
Agreement on Trade in Services and the applicant’s
employer is established in a country or territory that
has made a notification under Article XXVIII(k)(ii)(2)
of that agreement, a permanent resident of that
country or territory; or
(c) where the service that the applicant will provide
is covered by a commitment in the Temporary
Agreement between the Swiss Confederation and
the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland on Services Mobility, a permanent resident of
Switzerland; or
(d) where the service that the applicant will provide
is covered by a commitment in the United KingdomEuropean Union Trade and Cooperation Agreement,
a national of any Member State of the European
Union or any other person included in the definition
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 69 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

of “natural person of a Party” for the European Union
in Article 512(k) of that agreement; or
(e) where the service that the applicant will provide
is covered by a contractual service supplier
commitment in the CARIFORUM-United Kingdom
Economic Partnership Agreement, a national of any
CARIFORUM State that has provisionally applied or
brought into force that agreement; or
(f) where the service that the applicant will provide is
covered by a commitment in the Free Trade
Agreement between the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland and Australia, a
permanent resident of Australia; or
(g) where the service that the applicant will provide
is covered by a commitment in the Free Trade
Agreement between the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland and New Zealand, a
permanent resident of New Zealand; or
(ga) where the service that the applicant will provide
is covered by a commitment in the UK-India
Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement
(CETA), a national of India; or
(h) where the service that the applicant will provide
is covered by a commitment in the Comprehensive
and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific
Partnership (CPTPP), a national of a party to that
agreement or a permanent resident of Australia,
Canada or New Zealand, subject to the provisions of
paragraph (i);
(i) Where the commitment in the Comprehensive
and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific
Partnership (CPTPP) falls into a category in the first
column of the table, the applicant must be a national
of a country in the second column of the table below
(or to the extent that Australia, Canada or New
Zealand is listed in that column, a permanent
resident of that country):
Category

CPTPP Parties with access

Contractual

Australia, Brunei, Canada, Chile,

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 70 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

Service
Suppliers

Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, Peru,
Vietnam

Independent
Professionals

Australia, Brunei, Canada, Chile,
Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, Peru, New
Zealand

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

Overseas work requirement for a Service Supplier
SSU 9.1. The applicant must:
(a) be currently working as or for an overseas
service provider that will provide services to the
sponsor; and
(b) have worked as or for the overseas service
provider outside the UK for a cumulative period of 12
months.
SSU 9.2. In SSU 9.1. the 12 months’ work outside the
UK can have been accumulated over any period
provided that:
(a) the applicant was either:
(i) continuously working for the overseas service
provider at SSU 9.1., whether in or out of the UK,
from the start of the 12 months to the date of
application; or
(ii) if the applicant is a self-employed overseas
service provider, continuously working in the
same sector as the service they will provide to
the sponsor, whether in or out of the UK, from
the start of the 12 months to the date of
application; and
(b) any breaks in the continuous work in SSU 9.2.(a)
were only for the following reasons:
(i) statutory maternity, paternity, parental, or
shared parental leave; or
(ii) statutory adoption leave; or
(iii) sick leave; or
(iv) assisting with a national or international
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 71 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

humanitarian or environmental crisis, with the
agreement of the overseas service provider; or
(v) taking part in legally organised industrial
action; or
(vi) jury service; or
(vii) attending court as a witness.
Genuineness requirement for a Service Supplier
SSU 9A.1. The applicant must:
(a) genuinely intend, and be able, to undertake the
role for which they are being sponsored; and
(b) not intend to undertake employment other than in
the role for which they are being sponsored, or as
otherwise permitted by SSU 13.1.
Financial requirement for a Service Supplier
SSU 10.1. If the applicant is applying for permission to
stay and has been living in the UK with permission for
12 months or longer on the date of application, they will
meet the financial requirement and do not need to show
funds.
SSU 10.2. If the applicant is applying for entry clearance
or has been living in the UK for less than 12 months on
the date of application either:
(a) the applicant must have funds of at least £1,270;
or
(b) the applicant’s A-rated sponsor must confirm on
the Certificate of Sponsorship that they will, if it is
necessary, maintain and accommodate the applicant
up to the end of the first month of their employment
to an amount of at least £1,270.
SSU 10.3. If SSU 10.2.(a) applies, the applicant must
show that they have held the required level of funds for
a 28-day period and as set out in Appendix Finance.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 72 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

Maximum length of assignments requirement for a
Service Supplier
SSU 11.1. The grant of permission must not lead to the
applicant being granted cumulative periods of
permission on the Global Business Mobility routes and
Intra-Company routes totalling more than 5 years in any
6-year period.
SSU 11.2. When calculating the cumulative periods of
permission referred to in SSU 11.1., the decision maker
will include the following:
(a) all previous periods of permission on the Global
Business Mobility routes; and
(b) all previous periods of permission on the IntraCompany routes; and
(c) if the applicant does not currently hold
permission in the Global Business Mobility routes,
any permission they could be granted under this
application, beginning on the start date of the job
stated on the Certificate of Sponsorship; and
(d) if the applicant is applying for permission to stay
and has or last had permission on the Global
Business Mobility routes, any permission they could
be granted under this application, beginning on the
date of decision; and
(e) any period of permission on the Global Business
Mobility routes and the Intra-Company routes
extended under section 3C of the Immigration Act
1971.
Decision on an application as a Service Supplier
SSU 12.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all the
suitability and eligibility requirements for a Service
Supplier are met the application will be granted,
otherwise the application will be refused.
SSU 12.2. If the application is refused the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 73 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

Period and conditions of grant as a Service Supplier
SSU 13.1. The grant will be subject to all the following
conditions:
(a) no access to public funds; and
(b) the only work permitted is:
(i) the job for which the applicant is being
sponsored; and
(ii) voluntary work; and
(c) study is permitted, subject to the ATAS condition
in Appendix ATAS.
(d) DELETED
SSU 13.2. If the application is for entry clearance,
permission will be granted for a period which is the
shortest of the following:
(a) 14 days after the end date of the job detailed in
the Certificate of Sponsorship; or
(b) the date at which the applicant will have had
cumulative permission on the Global Business
Mobility routes and Intra-Company routes totalling 5
years in any 6-year period; or
(c) the maximum single assignment period which is:
(i) if the applicant is covered by a relevant
commitment in the United Kingdom-European
Union Trade and Cooperation Agreement and is
a national of any Member State of the European
Union or any other person included in the
definition of “natural person of a Party” for the
European Union in Article 512(k) of that
agreement, 12 months; or
(ii) if the applicant is a Swiss national or
permanent resident covered by a relevant
commitment in the Temporary Agreement
between the Swiss Confederation and the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland
on Services Mobility, 12 months; or
(iia) if the applicant is an Australian national or
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 74 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

permanent resident covered by a relevant
commitment in the Free Trade Agreement
between the United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland and Australia, 12 months;
or
(iib) if the applicant is covered by a relevant
commitment in the Comprehensive and
Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific
Partnership (CPTPP), and is a person included
in the definition of “business person” under
Article 12.1 of that agreement, 12 months; or
(iic) if the applicant is an Indian national covered
by a relevant commitment in the UK-India
Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement
(CETA), 12 months; or
(iii) in all other cases, 6 months.
SSU 13.3. If the application is for permission to stay, the
permission will be granted for a period which is the
shortest of the following:
(a) 14 days after the end date of the job detailed in
the Certificate of Sponsorship; or
(b) the date at which the applicant will have had
cumulative permission on the Global Business
Mobility routes and Intra-Company routes totalling 5
years in any 6-year period; or
(c) the maximum single assignment period which is:
(i) if the applicant is covered by a relevant
commitment in the United Kingdom-European
Union Trade and Cooperation Agreement and is
a national of any Member State of the European
Union or any other person included in the
definition of “natural person of a Party” for the
European Union in Article 512(k) of that
agreement, the difference between the period
the applicant has already spent in the UK since
their last grant of permission as a Service
Supplier and 12 months; or
(ii) if the applicant is a Swiss national or
permanent resident covered by a relevant
commitment in the Temporary Agreement
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 75 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

between the Swiss Confederation and the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland
on Services Mobility, the difference between the
period the applicant has already spent in the UK
since their last grant of permission as a Service
Supplier and 12 months; or
(iia) if the applicant is an Australian national or
permanent resident covered by a relevant
commitment in the Free Trade Agreement
between the United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland and Australia, the
difference between the period the applicant has
already spent in the UK since their last grant of
permission as a Service Supplier and 12 months;
or
(iib) if the applicant is covered by a relevant
commitment in the Comprehensive and
Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific
Partnership (CPTPP), the difference between the
period the applicant has already spent in the UK
since their last grant of permission as a Service
Supplier and 12 months; or
(iic) if the applicant is an Indian national covered
by a relevant commitment in the UK-India
Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement
(CETA), the difference between the period the
applicant has already spent in the UK since their
last grant of permission as a Service Supplier
and 12 months; or
(iii) in all other cases, the difference between the
period the applicant has already spent in the UK
since their last grant of permission as a Service
Supplier and 6 months.
SSU 13.4. If the applicant does not currently hold
permission on the Global Business Mobility routes, any
permission granted for the period between the date of
decision and the start date of the job detailed in the
Certificate of Sponsorship will be excluded from the
cumulative permission for the purpose of determining
the period of grant of permission under SSU 13.2. and
SSU 13.3. (but not from the cumulative period in SSU
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 76 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

11.2.).
Dependent Partner (“partner”) and dependent child
(“child”) of a Service Supplier
Validity requirements for a partner or child of a
Service Supplier
SSU 14.1. A person applying for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a partner or child of a Service
Supplier must apply online on the gov.uk website on the
specified form as follows:
Applicant

Specified form

Applicants outside the UK

Dependant partner visa
Dependant child visa

Applicants inside the UK

Dependant partner
Dependant child

SSU 14.2. An application for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a partner or child of a Service
Supplier must meet all the following requirements:
(a) any fee and Immigration Health Charge must
have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided either a
passport or other travel document which
satisfactorily establishes their identity and
nationality; and
(d) the applicant must be applying as partner or child
of a person who:
(i) has made a valid application for entry
clearance or permission to stay on the Global
Business Mobility – Service Supplier route that
has not been decided; or
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 77 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

(ii) has entry clearance or permission to stay on
the Global Business Mobility – Service Supplier
route.
SSU 14.3. A person applying as a partner must be aged
18 or over on the date of application.
SSU 14.4. If applying for permission to stay, the
applicant must be in the UK on the date of application.
SSU 14.4ZA. If applying for permission to stay, the
applicant must not have, or have last been granted,
permission:
(a) as a Visitor; or
(b) as a Short-term Student; or
(c) as a Parent of a Child Student; or
(d) as a Seasonal Worker; or
(e) as a Domestic Worker in a Private Household; or
(f) outside the Immigration Rules.
SSU 14.4A. An applicant who is applying for permission
to stay and has, or last had, permission as a Student,
must fulfil one of the Conditions A or B below on the
date of application:
(a) Condition A: the applicant must have completed
the course of study for which the Confirmation of
Acceptance for Studies was assigned (or a course to
which ST 27.3 of Appendix Student applies); or
(b) Condition B: the applicant must:
(i) be studying a full-time course of study leading
to the award of a PhD with a higher education
provider which has a track record of compliance;
and
(ii) have completed at least 24 months of study
on that course.
SSU 14.5. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for a partner or child of a Service
Supplier may be rejected as invalid and not considered.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 78 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

Suitability requirements for a partner or child of a
Service Supplier
SSU 15.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
SSU 15.2. If applying for permission to stay the
applicant must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.
Eligibility requirements for a dependent partner or
dependent child of a Service Supplier
Entry requirement for a partner or child of a Service
Supplier
SSU 16.1. A person seeking to come to the UK as a
partner or child must apply for and obtain entry
clearance as a partner or child of a Service Supplier
before they arrive in the UK.
SSU 16.2. A person applying for entry clearance as the
partner or child of a Service Supplier must, if Appendix
Tuberculosis applies, provide a valid medical certificate
confirming that they have undergone screening for
active pulmonary tuberculosis and that this tuberculosis
is not present in them.
Relationship requirement for a partner of a Service
Supplier
SSU 17.1. The applicant must be the partner of a
person (P) where one of the following applies:
(a) P has permission on the Global Business
Mobility – Service Supplier route; or
(b) P is, at the same time, applying for (and is
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 79 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

granted) entry clearance or permission on the Global
Business Mobility – Service Supplier route.
SSU 17.2. The requirements of Appendix Relationship
with Partner must be met. SSU 17.3. DELETED
SSU 17.4. DELETED
Relationship requirement for a child of a Service
Supplier
SSU 18.1. DELETED.
SSU 18.2. DELETED.
SSU 18.3. DELETED.
Care requirement for a child of a Service Supplier
SSU 19.1. DELETED.
Age requirement for a child of a Service Supplier
SSU 20.1. DELETED.
SSU 20.2. DELETED.
Requirements for a dependent child of a Service
Supplier
SSU 20A.1. The applicant must meet the following
requirements for a dependent child in Appendix
Children:
(a) relationship requirement: entry clearance and
permission to stay; and
(b) care requirement; and
(c) age and independent life requirement.
Financial requirement for a partner or child of a
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 80 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

Service Supplier
SSU 21.1. If the applicant is applying for permission to
stay and has been living in the UK with permission for
12 months or longer on the date of application, they will
meet the financial requirement and do not need to show
funds.
SSU 21.2. If the applicant is applying for entry
clearance, or is applying for permission to stay and has
not been in the UK for 12 months on the date of
application, either:
(a) funds of at least the amount required in SSU
21.3 must be held collectively by one or more of the
following:
(i) the applicant; and
(ii) the Service Supplier (P); and
(iii) if the applicant is applying as a child, their
parent who is lawfully present in the UK or being
granted entry clearance, or permission to stay, at
the same time as the applicant; or
(b) the sponsor of P must confirm on the Certificate
of Sponsorship that they will, if necessary, maintain
and accommodate the partner and/or any child as
well as P, up to the end of the first month of each of
their permission, up to at least the amounts in SSU
21.3.
SSU 21.3. The required funds are:
(a) £285 for a partner in the UK or applying for entry
clearance; and
(b) £315 for the first child in the UK or applying for
entry clearance; and
(c) £200 for any other child in the UK or applying for
entry clearance.
SSU 21.4. If SSU 21.2.(a) applies, the funds held must
be held in addition to any funds required for the Service
Supplier to meet the financial requirement and the funds
required for any dependants in the UK or applying at the
same time.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 81 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

SSU 21.5. If SSU 21.2.(a) applies, the funds must have
been held for a 28-day period and as specified in
Appendix Finance.
Decision on an application as a partner or child of a
Service Supplier
SSU 22.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all the
suitability and eligibility requirements are met for a
partner or child of a Service Supplier the application will
be granted, otherwise the application will be refused.
SSU 22.2. If the application is refused the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.
Period and conditions of grant for a partner or child
of a Service Supplier
SSU 23.1. A partner will be granted permission which
ends on the same date as the person (P) who is their
partner and has permission as a Service Supplier.
SSU 23.2. A child will be granted permission which ends
on the same date as whichever of their parents’
permission ends first.
SSU 23.3. The grant will be subject to all the following
conditions:
(a) no access to public funds; and
(b) work (including self-employment and voluntary
work) permitted; except for employment as a
professional sportsperson (including as a sports
coach); and
(c) study is permitted, subject to the ATAS condition
in Appendix ATAS.
(d) DELETED

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 82 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

Appendix Global Business Mobility –
Secondment Worker
The Global Business Mobility – Secondment Worker
route is for overseas workers who are undertaking
temporary work assignments in the UK, where the
worker is being seconded to the UK as part of a high
value contract or investment by their employer
overseas.
A dependent partner and dependent children can apply
to come to the UK on this route.
The Global Business Mobility – Secondment Worker
route is not a route to settlement.
Validity requirements for a Global Business Mobility
- Secondment Worker (“Secondment Worker”)
SEC 1.1. A person applying for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a Secondment Worker must apply
online on the gov.uk website on the specified form as
follows:
(a) for applicants outside the UK, form “Global
Business Mobility visa”; or
(b) for applicants inside the UK, form “Global
Business Mobility”.
SEC 1.2. An application for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a Secondment Worker must meet
all the following requirements:
(a) any fee and Immigration Health Charge must
have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other travel document which satisfactorily
establishes their identity and nationality; and
(d) the applicant must have a Certificate of
Sponsorship that was issued to them by their
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 83 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

sponsor no more than 3 months before the date of
application.
SEC 1.3. The applicant must be aged 18 or over on the
date of application.
SEC 1.4. An applicant applying for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a Secondment Worker who has
received an award from a Government or international
scholarship agency in the 12 months before the date of
application which covers both fees and living costs for
study in the UK, must have provided written consent to
the application from that Government or agency.
SEC 1.5. If applying for permission to stay, the applicant
must be in the UK on the date of application.
SEC 1.5ZA. If applying for permission to stay, the
applicant must not have, or have last been granted,
permission:
(a) as a Visitor; or
(b) as a Short-term Student; or
(c) as a Parent of a Child Student; or
(d) as a Seasonal Worker; or
(e) as a Domestic Worker in a Private Household; or
(f) outside the Immigration Rules.
SEC 1.5A. An applicant who is applying for permission
to stay and has, or last had, permission as a Student,
must fulfil one of the Conditions A, B or C below on the
date of application:
(a) Condition A: the applicant must have completed
the course of study for which the Confirmation of
Acceptance for Studies was assigned (or a course to
which ST 27.3 of Appendix Student applies); or
(b) Condition B:
(i) the applicant must be studying a full-time
course of study at degree level or above with a
higher education provider which has a track
record of compliance; and
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 84 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

(ii) the Certificate of Sponsorship in SEC 1.2(d)
must have a start date no earlier than the course
completion date; or
(c) Condition C:
(i) the applicant must be studying a full-time
course of study leading to the award of a PhD
with a higher education provider which has a
track record of compliance; and
(ii) the Certificate of Sponsorship in SEC 1.2(d)
must have a start date no earlier than 24 months
after the start date of that course.
SEC 1.6. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for a Secondment Worker may be
rejected as invalid and not considered.
Suitability requirements for a Secondment Worker
SEC 2.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
SEC 2.2. If applying for permission to stay the applicant
must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.
Eligibility requirements for a Secondment Worker
Entry requirements for a Secondment Worker
SEC 3.1. A person seeking to come to the UK as a
Secondment Worker must apply for and obtain entry
clearance as a Secondment Worker before their arrival
in the UK.
SEC 3.2. A person applying for entry clearance as a
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 85 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

Secondment Worker must, if Appendix Tuberculosis
applies, provide a valid medical certificate confirming
that they have undergone screening for active
pulmonary tuberculosis and that this tuberculosis is not
present in them.
Points requirement for a Secondment Worker
SEC 4.1. The applicant must be awarded all 40 points in
the table below:
Points requirements

Relevant rules

Points

Sponsorship

SEC 5.1. to SEC
5.7.

20

Job at an appropriate skill
level

SEC 6.1. to SEC
6.6.

20

Points for Sponsorship for a Secondment Worker
SEC 5.1. The applicant must have a valid Certificate of
Sponsorship for the job they are planning to do, which to
be valid must:
(a) confirm the applicant’s name, that they are being
sponsored as a Secondment Worker, and details of
the job the sponsor is offering them; and
(b) include a start date for the job, stated by the
sponsor, which must be no more than 3 months after
the date of application; and
(c) not have been used in a previous application
which was either granted or refused (but can have
been used in a previous application which was
rejected as invalid, made void or withdrawn); and
(d) not have been withdrawn by the sponsor or
cancelled by the Home Office; and
(e) DELETED
(f) confirm whether or not the Academic Technology
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 86 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

Approval Scheme (ATAS) requirement in Appendix
ATAS applies; and
(g) confirm on which of the sponsor’s contracts
registered with the Home Office the applicant will
work.
SEC 5.2. The sponsor must be authorised by the Home
Office to sponsor a Secondment Worker.
SEC 5.3. The sponsor must be listed as A-rated on the
Home Office’s register of licensed sponsors, unless the
applicant was last granted permission as a Secondment
Worker and is applying to continue working for the same
sponsor as in their last permission.
SEC 5.4. The sponsor must have a contract with an
overseas business, where that contract has been
registered with the Home Office, and on which an
applicant as a Secondment Worker will work.
SEC 5.5. The decision maker must not have reasonable
grounds to believe the job the applicant is being
sponsored to do:
(a) does not exist; or
(b) is a sham; or
(c) has been created mainly so the applicant can
apply for entry clearance or permission to stay.
SEC 5.6. The decision maker must not have reasonable
grounds to believe the job the applicant is being
sponsored to do amounts to:
(a) the hire of the applicant to a third party who is not
the sponsor to fill a position with that party, whether
temporary or permanent; or
(b) contract work to undertake an ongoing routine
role or to provide an ongoing routine service for a
third party who is not the sponsor, regardless of the
nature or length of any arrangement between the
sponsor and the third party.
SEC 5.6A. The decision maker must not have
reasonable grounds to believe the job the applicant is
being sponsored to do does not comply with the
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 87 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

National Minimum Wage Regulations or the Working
Time Regulations.
SEC 5.7. If the requirements in SEC 5.1. to SEC 5.6.
are met, the applicant will be awarded 20 points for
sponsorship.
Points for job at appropriate skill level for a
Secondment Worker
SEC 6.1. The applicant must be sponsored for a job in a
SOC 2020 occupation code listed in Table 2 or Table 3
of Appendix Skilled Occupations.
SEC 6.1A. If the date of application is before 4 April
2030, the applicant was granted permission as a
Secondment Worker under the Rules in place before 4
April 2024, and they have had continuous permission as
a Secondment Worker since then (except that where the
Exceptions for overstayers section of Part Suitability
applies, that period of overstaying will be disregarded),
they may be sponsored for a job in a SOC 2020
occupation code listed in Table 2b of Appendix Skilled
Occupations.
SEC 6.2. The sponsor must choose an appropriate SOC
2020 occupation code, and the decision maker must not
have reasonable grounds to believe the sponsor has
chosen a less appropriate SOC 2020 occupation code
due to the most appropriate SOC 2020 occupation code
not being eligible under the Global Business Mobility
routes.
SEC 6.3. To support the assessment in SEC 6.2, the
decision maker may, in particular, consider:
(a) whether the sponsor has shown a genuine need
for the job as described; and
(b) whether the applicant has the appropriate skills,
qualifications and experience needed to do the job
as described; and
(c) the sponsor’s history of compliance with the
immigration system including, but not limited to,
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 88 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

paying its sponsored workers appropriately; and
(d) any additional information from the sponsor.
SEC 6.4. If the ATAS requirement in Appendix ATAS
applies, the applicant must provide a valid ATAS
certificate.
SEC 6.5. If the requirements in SEC 6.1. to SEC 6.4.
are met, the applicant will be awarded 20 points for a
job at the appropriate skill level, subject to SEC 6.6.
SEC 6.6. No points will be awarded for a job at the
appropriate skill level if the applicant is not also being
awarded 20 points for sponsorship under SEC 5.7.
Overseas Work requirement for a Secondment
Worker
SEC 7.1 The applicant must meet the overseas work
requirement at SEC 7.2. unless the applicant:
(a) is applying for permission to stay; and
(b) has, or last had, permission as a Secondment
Worker; and
(c) is applying to continue working for the same
sponsor as in their last permission.
SEC 7.2 The overseas requirement will be met where
the applicant:
(a) is currently working for an overseas business
that has a contract with the sponsor that has been
registered with the Home Office by the sponsor; and
(b) has worked outside the UK for that overseas
business for a cumulative period of at least 6
months.
SEC 7.3. In SEC 7.2.(b) the 6 months’ work outside the
UK can have been accumulated over any period
provided that:
(a) the applicant was continuously working for the
overseas businesses in SEC 7.2.(a), whether in or
out of the UK, from the start of the 6 months to the
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 89 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

date of application; and
(b) any breaks in the continuous work in SEC 7.3.(a)
were only for the following reasons:
(i) statutory maternity, paternity, parental, or
shared parental leave; or
(ii) statutory adoption leave; or
(iii) sick leave; or
(iv) assisting with a national or international
humanitarian or environmental crisis, with the
agreement of the overseas business in SEC 7.2.
(a); or
(v) taking part in legally organised industrial
action; or
(vi) jury service; or
(vii) attending court as a witness.
Genuineness requirement for a Secondment Worker
SEC 7A.1. The applicant must:
(a) genuinely intend, and be able, to undertake the
role for which they are being sponsored; and
(b) not intend to undertake employment other than in
the role for which they are being sponsored, or as
otherwise permitted by SEC 11.1.
Financial requirement for a Secondment Worker
SEC 8.1. If the applicant is applying for permission to
stay and has been living in the UK with permission for
12 months or longer on the date of application, they will
meet the financial requirement and do not need to show
funds.
SEC 8.2. If the applicant is applying for entry clearance
or has been living in the UK for less than 12 months on
the date of application either:
(a) the applicant must have funds of at least £1,270;
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 90 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

or
(b) the applicant’s A-rated sponsor must confirm on
the Certificate of Sponsorship that they will, if it is
necessary, maintain and accommodate the applicant
up to the end of the first month of their employment
to an amount of at least £1,270.
SEC 8.3. If SEC 8.2.(a) applies, the applicant must
show that they have held the required level of funds for
a 28-day period and as set out in Appendix Finance.
Maximum length of assignments requirement for a
Secondment Worker
SEC 9.1. The grant of permission must not lead to the
applicant being granted cumulative periods of
permission on the Global Business Mobility routes and
the Intra-Company routes totalling more than 5 years in
any 6-year period.
SEC 9.2. When calculating the cumulative periods of
permission referred to in SEC 9.1. and SEC 11.2.(d), the
decision maker will include the following:
(a) all previous periods of permission on the Global
Business Mobility routes; and
(b) all previous periods of permission on the IntraCompany routes; and
(c) if the applicant does not currently hold
permission on a Global Business Mobility route, any
permission they could be granted under this
application, beginning on the start date of the job
stated on the Certificate of Sponsorship; and
(d) if the applicant is applying for permission to stay
and has or last had permission on the Global
Business Mobility routes, any permission they could
be granted under this application, beginning on the
date of decision; and
(e) any period of permission on the Global Business
Mobility routes and the Intra-Company routes
extended under section 3C of the Immigration Act
1971.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 91 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

Decision on an application as a Secondment Worker
SEC 10.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all the
suitability and eligibility requirements for a Secondment
Worker on the Global Business Mobility route are met
the application will be granted, otherwise the application
will be refused.
SEC 10.2. If the application is refused the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.
Period and conditions of grant as a Secondment
Worker
SEC 11.1. The grant will be subject to all the following
conditions:
(a) no access to public funds; and
(b) the only work permitted is:
(i) the job for which the applicant is being
sponsored; and
(ii) voluntary work; and
(iii) working out a contractual notice period,
where the applicant was lawfully working in that
job in the UK on the date of application; and
(c) study is permitted, subject to the ATAS condition
in Appendix ATAS.
(d) DELETED
SEC 11.2. Permission will be granted for a period which
is the shortest of the following:
(a) 1 year after the start date of the job detailed in
the Certificate of Sponsorship; or
(b) 14 days after the end date of the job detailed in
the Certificate of Sponsorship; or
(c) the date at which the applicant will have had a
continuous permission as a Secondment Worker
totalling 2 years.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 92 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

(d) the date at which the applicant will have had
cumulative permission on the Global Business
Mobility routes and Intra-Company routes totalling 5
years in any 6-year period.
SEC 11.3. If the applicant does not currently hold
permission on the Global Business Mobility routes, any
permission granted for the period between the date of
decision and the start date of the job detailed in the
Certificate of Sponsorship will be excluded from the
cumulative permission for the purpose of determining
the period of grant of permission under SEC 11.2. (but
not from the cumulative period in SEC 9.2.).
Dependant Partner (“partner”) and dependent child
(“child”) of a Secondment Worker
Validity requirements for a partner or child of a
Secondment Worker
SEC 12.1. A person applying for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a partner or child of a
Secondment Worker must apply online on the gov.uk
website on the specified form as follows:
Applicant

Specified form

Applicants outside the UK

Dependant partner visa
Dependant child visa

Applicants inside the UK

Dependant partner
Dependant child

SEC 12.2. An application for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a partner or child of a
Secondment Worker must meet all the following
requirements:
(a) any fee and Immigration Health Charge must have
been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics when
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 93 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided either a passport
or other travel document which satisfactorily establishes
their identity and nationality; and
(d) the applicant must be applying as partner or child of
a person who:
(i) has made a valid application for entry clearance
or permission to stay on the Global Business
Mobility – Secondment Worker route that has not
been decided; or
(ii) has entry clearance or permission to stay on the
Global Business Mobility – Secondment Worker
route.
SEC 12.3. A person applying as a partner must be aged
18 or over on the date of application.
SEC 12.4. If applying for permission to stay, the
applicant must be in the UK on the date of application.
SEC 12.4ZA. If applying for permission to stay, the
applicant must not have, or have last been granted,
permission:
(a) as a Visitor; or
(b) as a Short-term Student; or
(c) as a Parent of a Child Student; or
(d) as a Seasonal Worker; or
(e) as a Domestic Worker in a Private Household; or
(f) outside the Immigration Rules.
SEC 12.4A. An applicant who is applying for permission
to stay and has, or last had, permission as a Student,
must fulfil one of the Conditions A or B below on the
date of application:
(a) Condition A: the applicant must have completed
the course of study for which the Confirmation of
Acceptance for Studies was assigned (or a course to
which ST 27.3 of Appendix Student applies); or
(b) Condition B: the applicant must:
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 94 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

(i) be studying a full-time course of study leading
to the award of a PhD with a higher education
provider which has a track record of compliance;
and
(ii) have completed at least 24 months of study
on that course.
SEC 12.5. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for a partner or child of a
Secondment Worker may be rejected as invalid and not
considered.
Suitability requirements for a partner or child of a
Secondment Worker
SEC 13.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
SEC 13.2. If applying for permission to stay the
applicant must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.
Eligibility requirements for a partner or child of a
Secondment Worker
Entry requirement for a partner or child of a
Secondment Worker
SEC 14.1. A person seeking to come to the UK as a
partner or child must apply for and obtain entry
clearance as a partner or child of a Secondment Worker
before they arrive in the UK.
SEC 14.2. A person applying for entry clearance as the
partner or child of a Secondment Worker must, if
Appendix Tuberculosis applies, provide a valid medical
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 95 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

certificate confirming that they have undergone
screening for active pulmonary tuberculosis and that this
tuberculosis is not present in them.
Relationship requirement for a partner of a
Secondment Worker
SEC 15.1. The applicant must be the partner of a
person (P) where one of the following applies:
(a) P has permission on the Global Business
Mobility – Secondment Worker route; or
(b) P is, at the same time, applying for (and is
granted) entry clearance or permission on the Global
Business Mobility – Secondment Worker route.
SEC 15.2. The requirements of Appendix Relationship
with Partner must be met.
SEC 15.3. DELETED
SEC 15.4. DELETED
Relationship requirement for a child of a
Secondment Worker
SEC 16.1. DELETED.
SEC 16.2. DELETED.
SEC 16.3. DELETED.
Care requirement for a child of a Secondment
Worker
SEC 17.1. DELETED.
Age requirement for a child of a Secondment
Worker
SEC 18.1. DELETED.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 96 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

SEC 18.2. DELETED.
Requirements for a dependent child of a
Secondment Worker
SEC 18A.1. The applicant must meet the following
requirements for a dependent child in Appendix
Children:
(a) relationship requirement: entry clearance and
permission to stay; and
(b) care requirement; and
(c) age and independent life requirement.
Financial requirement for a partner or child of a
Secondment Worker
SEC 19.1. If the applicant is applying for permission to
stay and has been living in the UK with permission for
12 months or longer on the date of application, they will
meet the financial requirement and do not need to show
funds.
SEC 19.2. If the applicant is applying for entry
clearance, or is applying for permission to stay and has
not been in the UK for 12 months on the date of
application, either:
(a) funds of at least the amount required in SEC
19.3 must be held collectively by one or more of the
following:
(i) the applicant; and
(ii) the Secondment Worker (P); and
(iii) if the applicant is applying as a child, their
parent who is lawfully present in the UK or being
granted entry clearance, or permission to stay, at
the same time; or
(b) the sponsor of P must confirm on the Certificate
of Sponsorship that they will, if necessary, maintain
and accommodate the partner and/or any child as
well as P, up to the end of the first month of each of
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 97 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

their permission, up to at least the amounts in SEC
19.3.
SEC 19.3. The required funds are:
(a) £285 for a partner in the UK or applying for entry
clearance; and
(b) £315 for the first child in the UK or applying for
entry clearance; and
(c) £200 for any other child in the UK or applying for
entry clearance.
SEC 19.4. If SEC 19.2.(a) applies, the funds held must
be held in addition to any funds required for the
Secondment Worker to meet the financial requirement
and the funds required for any dependants in the UK or
applying at the same time.
SEC 19.5. If SEC 19.2.(a) applies, the funds must have
been held for a 28-day period and as specified in
Appendix Finance.
Decision on an application as a partner and child of
a Secondment Worker
SEC 20.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all the
suitability and eligibility requirements are met for a
partner or child of a Secondment Worker the application
will be granted, otherwise the application will be refused.
SEC 20.2. If the application is refused the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.
Period and conditions of grant for a partner or child
of a Secondment Worker
SEC 21.1. A partner will be granted permission which
ends on the same date as the person (P) who is their
partner and has permission as a Secondment Worker.
SEC 21.2. A child will be granted permission which ends
on the same date as whichever of their parents’
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

Page 98 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Business Mobility routes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

permission ends first.
SEC 21.3. The grant will be subject to all the following
conditions:
(a) no access to public funds; and
(b) work (including self-employment and voluntary
work) permitted; except for employment as a
professional sportsperson (including as a sports
coach); and
(c) study is permitted, subject to the ATAS condition
in Appendix ATAS.
(d) DELETED

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-business-mobility-routes

© Crown copyright

Page 99 of 99

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Talent - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:43 am

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix Global Talent
The Global Talent route is for people aged
18 or over in the field of science,
engineering, humanities, social science,
medicine, digital technology or arts and
culture who can show they have
exceptional talent or exceptional promise.
For most individuals there is a two-part application
process. The first part is an application for endorsement
(guidance on the relevant evidence and its format is set
out from time to time by the Secretary of State on
gov.uk/global talent); the second part is an application
for entry clearance or permission to stay.
A person can make the application for endorsement
before making the application for permission, or they
can make both applications at the same time.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-talent

Page 1 of 38

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Talent - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:43 am

Alternatively, a person who has been awarded a
prestigious prize listed in Appendix Global Talent:
Prestigious Prizes is considered as showing exceptional
talent and is therefore not required to apply for an
endorsement.
A dependent partner and dependent children can apply
under this route.
Global Talent is a route to settlement.

Part 1- Global Talent Endorsement
application
Validity requirements for a Global Talent
Endorsement application
GTE 1.1. A person applying for Global Talent
endorsement must apply online on the gov.uk website
on the specified form “Apply for Global Talent
endorsement - stage 1.
GTE 1.2. An application for Global Talent endorsement
must meet both the following requirements:
(a) the endorsement application fee must have been
paid; and
(b) the application must be for endorsement by an
endorsing body in the field relevant to the applicant.
GTE 1.3. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for a Global Talent endorsement
may be rejected as invalid and not considered.
Eligibility requirements for a Global Talent
Endorsement application
GTE 2.1. An application for endorsement must be made
under one of the fields below and must meet the
endorsement requirements for that field.

Arts and Culture endorsement
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-talent

Page 2 of 38

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Talent - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:43 am

Arts and Culture field track record requirements
GTE 3.1. An applicant for endorsement in the field of
Arts and Culture must satisfy the endorsing body that
they have either been recognised as an exceptional
talent, or someone with exceptional promise, in the field
of arts and culture and:
(a) be professionally engaged in producing
outstanding performed, presented, distributed or
internationally exhibited work; and
(b) show regular professional engagement in their
field in the last 5 years; and
(c) if evidencing exceptional talent, show a
substantial track record in at least 2 countries; and
(d) if evidencing exceptional promise:
(i) be at an early stage in their career; and
(ii) show a developing track record in 1 or more
countries.
Arts and Culture field track record evidential
requirements
GTE 3.2. An applicant must provide all of the following:
(a) a CV which sets out their professional arts and
culture career to date; and
(b) 3 dated letters of recommendation supporting the
Global talent application of which:
(i) 2 must be from well-established arts and
culture organisations that the applicant has
worked with in an artistic capacity, who are
acknowledged as experts in the applicant’s field,
and at least one of the organisations must be
based in the UK; and
(ii) the third must be from another wellestablished arts and culture organisation, or an
individual that the applicant has worked with in
an artistic capacity, who has recognised
experience in the applicant’s field.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-talent

Page 3 of 38

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Talent - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:43 am

GTE 3.3. An applicant who is evidencing exceptional
talent in their field must provide at least two of the
following:
(a) evidence from at least 2 countries (which can
include their country of residence) of 2 or more
examples of significant media recognition for their
work as an individual or as a named member of a
group or as a contributor; or
(b) evidence of winning, or significantly contributing
to winning, at least 1 international award for
excellence; or
(c) evidence from at least 2 countries (which can
include their country of residence) of proof of
professional appearances, performances,
publications or exhibitions considered internationally
significant in their field, or evidence of extensive
international distribution and sales for their work as
an individual or as a named member of a group or
as a contributor.
GTE 3.4. An applicant who is evidencing exceptional
promise in their field must provide at least 2 of the
following:
(a) evidence from at least 1 country (which can
include their country of residence) of at least 2
examples of recent media recognition for their work
as an individual, as a named member of a group or
as a contributor; or
(b) evidence of winning, or significantly contributing
to winning, or significantly contributing to being
nominated or shortlisted for, or being nominated or
shortlisted for, at least 1 international award for
excellence; or
(c) evidence from at least 1 country (which can
include their country of residence) of proof of
professional appearances, performances,
publications or exhibitions recognised in their field,
or evidence of international distribution and sales for
their work as an individual, as a named member of a
group or as a contributor.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-talent

Page 4 of 38

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Talent - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:43 am

Architecture endorsement
Architecture field track record requirement
GTE 4.1. An applicant for endorsement in the field of
Architecture must satisfy the endorsing body that they
have either been recognised as an exceptional talent, or
someone with exceptional promise, in the field of
architecture and:
(a) be professionally engaged in producing
outstanding presented, published or internationally
exhibited work; and
(b) show regular professional engagement in their
field in the last 5 years; and
(c) show either a substantial track record in at least
2 countries if evidencing exceptional talent, or a
developing track record in at least 1 country if
evidencing exceptional promise.
Architecture field track record evidential
requirements
GTE 4.2. An applicant must provide all of the following:
(a) a CV which sets out their professional
architecture career to date; and
(b) 3 dated letters of recommendation supporting the
Global Talent application of which:
(i) 2 must be from well-established architecture
organisations that the applicant has worked with
in an architectural capacity, who are
acknowledged as experts in the applicant’s field,
and at least one1 of the organisations must be
based in the UK; and
(ii) the third must be from another wellestablished architecture organisation, or an
individual, that the applicant has worked with in
an architectural capacity, who has recognised
expertise in the applicant’s field.
GTE 4.3. An applicant who is evidencing exceptional
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-talent

Page 5 of 38

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Talent - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:43 am

talent in their field must provide at least 2 of the
following:
(a) evidence of winning, or significantly contributing
to winning, at least 1 international award for
excellence; or
(b) evidence from at least 2 countries (which can
include their country of residence) of a minimum of 2
examples of significant media recognition for their
work as an individual or as a named member of a
group or as a contributor; or
(c) evidence from at least 2 countries (which can
include their country of residence) of a minimum of 2
examples of publications or exhibitions considered
internationally significant in the applicant’s field, for
their work as an individual or as a named member of
a group or as a contributor.
GTE 4.4. An applicant who is evidencing exceptional
promise in their field must provide at least 2 of the
following:
(a) evidence of winning, or significantly contributing
to winning, or significantly contributing to being
nominated or shortlisted for, or being nominated or
shortlisted for, at least 1 international award for
excellence in the last 5 years; or
(b) evidence from at least 1 country (which can
include their country of residence) of a minimum of 2
examples of recent media recognition for their work
as an individual or as a named member of a group
or as a contributor; or
(c) evidence from at least 1 country (which can
include their country of residence) of a minimum of 2
examples of publications or exhibitions in the last 5
years considered internationally significant in the
applicant’s field for their work as an individual or as
a named member of a group or as a contributor.

Fashion Design Industry endorsement
Fashion Design Industry field track record
requirement
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-talent

Page 6 of 38

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Talent - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:43 am

GTE 5.1. An applicant for endorsement in the field of
fashion design must satisfy the endorsing body that they
have either been recognised as an exceptional talent, or
someone with exceptional promise, in the field of
fashion design and:
(a) have a leading design role in the fashion
business; and
(b) show regular professional engagement in the
fashion design industry in the last 5 years; and
(c) if evidencing exceptional talent, show
professional engagement in producing outstanding
work that has been sold or exhibited internationally
through catwalk or other exhibitions and a
substantial track record in at least 2 countries; and
(d) if evidencing exceptional promise, show a
developing track record in at least 1 country and
professional engagement in producing outstanding
work that has been recognised by leading industry
players.
Fashion Design Industry field track record evidential
requirements
GTE 5.2. An applicant must provide all of the following:
(a) a CV which sets out their professional fashion
design career to date; and
(b) 3 dated letters of recommendation supporting the
Global Talent application of which:
(i) 2 must be from well-established fashion
organisations that the applicant has worked with
in a fashion design capacity, who are
acknowledged as experts in the applicant’s field,
and at least one1 of the organisations must be
based in the UK; and
(ii) the third must be from another wellestablished fashion organisation, or an
individual, that the applicant has worked with in a
fashion design capacity, who has recognised
expertise in the applicant’s field.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-talent

Page 7 of 38

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Talent - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:43 am

GTE 5.3. An applicant who is evidencing exceptional
talent in the fashion design industry field must provide at
least 2 of the following:
(a) evidence of winning, or significantly contributing
to winning, or being nominated or shortlisted for, or
significantly contributing to being nominated or
shortlisted for, at least 1 international award for
excellence; or
(b) evidence from at least 2 countries (which can
include their country of residence) of at least 2
examples of significant media recognition for their
individual work; or
(c) evidence of catwalk shows, presentations or
exhibitions considered internationally significant in
the fashion design industry; or
(d) evidence of extensive distribution and sales of
their collections via internationally renowned
retailers, their retail outlet or their ecommerce
platform.
GTE 5.4. An applicant who is evidencing exceptional
promise in the fashion design industry must provide at
least 2 of the following:
(a) at least 2 examples of recent UK or international
media recognition for their individual work or their
work as a contributing designer; or
(b) evidence of support and sponsorship through
one of the following:
(i) British Fashion Council support schemes; or
(ii) Fashion East support scheme; or (iii)The
Sarabande Foundation; or
(iv) The Centre of Fashion Enterprise; or
(v) an international organisation which the British
Fashion Council is satisfied operates as its
counterpart , outside of the UK; or
(c) evidence of at least 1 order placed by a luxury
retailer or boutique; or
(d) at least 2 examples of evidence of recognition by
leading industry players of an exceptional graduating
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-talent

Page 8 of 38

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Talent - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:43 am

collection.

Film and Television endorsement
Film and Television field track record requirement
GTE 6.1. An applicant for an exceptional talent
endorsement in the field of Film and Television must
satisfy the endorsing body that they have been
recognised as an exceptional talent in the field of film
and television and show 1 of the following:
(a) that they have won at any time a “Main Award”
for their work as an individual which means:
(i) an Academy Award; or
(ii) a British Academy of Film and Television Arts
(BAFTA) (film, television, television craft, Cymru,
Scotland, Games awards only); or
(iii) a Golden Globe; or
(iv) an Emmy Award; or
(b) in the last 10 years they have been nominated
for, or made a significant contribution to winning, or
being nominated for any of the Main Awards; or
(c) in the last 15 years, they have achieved a
minimum of 2 nominations for the Main Awards for
their work as an individual; or
(d) they have notable industry recognition for at least
2 separate productions through international
distribution sales, media recognition and a specified
combination of awards from Pact’s Notable Industry
Recognition Awards List, as set out in
https://www.pact.co.uk/applying-for-talentvisas/notable-industry-recognition-awards-list.html
(https://www.pact.co.uk/applying-for-talent-visas/notableindustry-recognition-awards-list.html)

Film and Television field track record evidential
requirements
GTE 6.2. An applicant must provide all of the following:
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-talent

Page 9 of 38

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Talent - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:43 am

(a) a CV which sets out their professional film and
television career to date; and
(b) 3 dated letters of recommendation supporting the
Global Talent application of which:
(i) 2 must be from well-established film and
television organisations that the applicant has
worked with in a film and television capacity, who
are acknowledged as experts in the applicant’s
field, and at least one of the organisations must
be based in the UK; and
(ii) the third must be from another wellestablished film and television organisation, or
an individual, that the applicant has worked with
in a film and television capacity, who has
recognised expertise in the applicant’s field.

Digital Technology endorsement
Digital Technology field track record requirement
GTE 7.1. An applicant for endorsement in the field of
digital technology must:
(a) satisfy the endorsing body that they have either
been recognised as an exceptional talent, or
someone with exceptional promise, in the field of
digital technology in the last 5 years; and
(b) show one of the following:
(i) if they are a technical applicant, that they have
proven technical expertise with the latest
technologies in building, using, deploying or
exploiting a technology stack and building
technical infrastructure; or
(ii) if they are a business applicant, that they
have proven commercial, investment or product
expertise in building digital products or leading
investments in significant digital product
businesses.
Digital Technology track record evidential
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-talent

Page 10 of 38

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Talent - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:43 am

requirements
GTE 7.2. An applicant must provide all of the following:
(a) a CV with career and publication history
included; and
(b) 3 dated letters of recommendation from 3
different well-established individuals acknowledged
as experts in the digital technology field, with
detailed knowledge of the applicant’s work over a
period of 12 months or more, supporting the Global
Talent application, which include all of the following:
(i) how the author knows the applicant; and
(ii) the applicant’s achievements in the relevant
field; and
(iii) how the author considers the applicant
shows exceptional talent or promise; and
(iv) the contribution the applicant would be
expected to make to the UK digital economy.
GTE 7.3. An applicant evidencing exceptional talent
must provide at least 2 pieces of evidence for 2 of the
following:
(a) a proven track record for innovation as a founder
or senior executive of a product-led digital
technology company or as an employee working on
a new digital field or concept; or
(b) proof of recognition for work beyond the
applicant’s occupation that contributes to the
advancement of the field; or
(c) they have made significant technical, commercial
or entrepreneurial contributions to the field as a
founder, senior executive, board member or
employee of a product-led digital technology
company; or
(d) they have demonstrated exceptional ability in the
field by academic contributions through research
published or endorsed by an expert.
GTE 7.4. An applicant evidencing exceptional promise
must:
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-talent

Page 11 of 38

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Talent - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:43 am

(a) provide at least 2 pieces of evidence for 2 of the
following:
(i) innovation as a founder of a product-led digital
technology company or as an employee working
on a new digital field or concept; or
(ii) a proof of recognition for work beyond the
applicant’s occupation that contributes to the
advancement of the field; or
(iii) they have made significant technical,
commercial or entrepreneurial contributions to
the field as a founder or employee of a productled digital technology company; or
(iv) they have demonstrated exceptional ability in
the field by academic contributions through
research endorsed by an expert; and
(b) be at an early stage in their career.
GTE 7.5. An applicant must provide evidence of any
commercially successful established businesses, share
ownership or businesses dissolved in the last 5 years
where the applicant has been a founder or senior
executive.

Science, engineering, humanities, social
science and medicine fields
endorsement
Science, engineering, humanities, social science
and medicine fields track record requirement
GTE 8.1. An applicant for endorsement in the field of
science, engineering, humanities, social science and
medicine must be an active researcher in an academic,
industry or government research institution.

Fast track endorsement
GTE 8.2. An applicant applying for endorsement on the
fast track must provide evidence of one of the following:
(a) that they hold, or have held in the 5 years before
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-talent

Page 12 of 38

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Talent - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:43 am

the date of application, a peer reviewed research
fellowship or award named on the list published by
the Royal Society, the Royal Academy of
Engineering and the British Academy; or
(b) that they have been appointed to an eligible
academic or research position at an approved UK
Higher Education Institution or research institute
named on the list published by the Royal Society,
the Royal Academy of Engineering and the British
Academy; or
(c) that they will be hosted or employed in a UK
research organisation named on the UKRI published
list and will provide critical contributions to work
supported by a substantial research grant or award
from an endorsed funder named on the UKRI
published list.
GTE 8.3. DELETED.
GTE 8.4. An applicant applying for endorsement on the
fast track under GTE 8.2.(c) must either:
(a) direct independently, or under the supervision of
a Principal Investigator, a unique research or
innovation project and meet all the following
requirements:
(i) they must have a PhD qualification or
equivalent research experience (including
industrial or clinical research); and
(ii) they must actively participate in a relevant
field in a University, research institute or industry;
and
(iii) they must have their name or post listed on
the grant or award as the Principal or coinvestigator, Researcher Co-investigator, Postdoctoral researcher or Research Assistant, or an
equivalent position acceptable to UKRI; or
(b) make critical contributions to research by
providing core technical or domain excellence or in
developing new technologies and methodologies
and meet both the following requirements:
(i) they must have a UK bachelor’s degree or
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-talent

Page 13 of 38

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Talent - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:43 am

equivalent overseas research degree or
equivalent research experience (including
industrial or clinical research); and
(ii) they must have research experience within a
University, Research Institute or Industry.
Fast Track endorsement - evidential requirements
GTE 8.5. An applicant on the fast track applying under
GTE 8.2.(a) must provide written confirmation from an
awarding body named on the list published by the Royal
Society, the Royal Academy of Engineering and the
British Academy that they hold, or have held in the last 5
years, an eligible peer reviewed fellowship or award.
GTE 8.6. An applicant on the fast track applying under
GTE 8.2.(b) must demonstrate that they hold an eligible
academic or research position at an approved UK
Higher Education Institution or Research Institute
named on the list published by the Royal Society, the
Royal Academy of Engineering and the British Academy
and they must provide both:
(a) a job description setting out the duties and
responsibilities of the position which demonstrates
that the role requires either a PhD or equivalent
research experience (academic, industrial or
clinical); and
(b) a statement of guarantee from the Director of
Human Resources, or equivalent, which confirms:
(i) the job was advertised, and an open
competition was held, or where it was not, an
explanation as to why not; and
(ii) the applicant has accepted the job offer; and
(Aiii) the job requires either a PhD or equivalent
research experience (academic, industrial or
clinical); and
(iii) the job title and department in which the
applicant will be based; and
(iv) the applicant:
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-talent

Page 14 of 38

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Talent - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:43 am

(1) has responsibility for academic, research
or innovation leadership and development; or
(2) will be performing research or innovation
as a primary function of their role; and
(v) at least two references were received; and
(vi) at least three academic, research or
innovation representatives were on the interview
panel(s); and
(vii) at least one expert in the applicant’s field
was on the interview panel(s), or at least one
relevant expert, independent of the employing
institution, was consulted before the job offer
was made.
GTE 8.7. An applicant on the fast track applying under
GTE 8.2.(c) must provide a declaration from the Director
of Human Resources, or equivalent at the UKRIapproved UK research organisation which confirms all
the following:
(a) that the applicant has accepted the job offer or
hosting agreement; and
(b) the job title and department in which the
applicant will be based; and
(c) that there is at least one year remaining on their
employment contract or hosting agreement; and
(d) that they will provide critical contributions to work
supported by a substantial research grant or award
from an endorsed funder; and
(e) that they are essential to the execution of the
grant or award; and
(f) that at least 50% of the applicant’s time will be
spent working on the grant or award by the
endorsed funder (Principal investigators and coinvestigators can aggregate time spent on multiple
eligible awards or grants to demonstrate this
requirement); and
(g) that a robust recruitment process has been
completed where the applicant was not named on
the grant application.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-talent

Page 15 of 38

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Talent - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:43 am

GTE 8.7A. An applicant on the fast track applying under
GTE 8.2.(c) must show that the grant or award from an
endorsed funder is worth at least £30,000, covers a
minimum of two years; and is either funded by a one-off
grant or award that has been won in open competition
or attributed to a large institutional, renewable award
that is subject to periodic peer review, by either:
(a)providing a link to the grant or award on a UKRIapproved database the details on which would be
checked by UKRI against the above requirements;
or
(b)providing written confirmation of the grant or
award from the endorsed funder that the above
requirements are met.

Full peer review endorsement
GTE 8.8. An applicant evidencing exceptional talent
under full peer review endorsement must satisfy the
endorsing body they have been recognised as an
exceptional talent in the field of science, engineering,
humanities, social science or medicine; and must:
(a) be an active researcher in a relevant field,
typically in a university, research institute or in
industry; and
(b) have a PhD or equivalent research experience
(including industrial or clinical research).
GTE 8.9. An applicant evidencing exceptional promise
under full peer review endorsement must satisfy the
endorsing body they have been recognised as having
exceptional promise in the field of science, engineering,
humanities, social science or medicine; and must:
(a) be an active researcher in a relevant field,
typically in a university, research institute or in
industry; and
(b) have a PhD or equivalent research experience
(including industrial or clinical research); and
(c) be at an early stage in their career.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-talent

Page 16 of 38

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Talent - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:43 am

Full peer review endorsement evidential
requirements
GTE 8.10. A full peer review endorsement applicant
must:
(a) provide a CV which sets out their career and
publication history; and
(b) provide a letter of personal recommendation from
an eminent person resident in the UK supporting the
Global Talent application which includes all of the
following:
(i) how the author knows the applicant; and
(ii) the applicant’s achievements in the relevant
field; and
(iii) how the author considers the applicant
shows exceptional talent or promise; and
(iv) the contribution the applicant would be
expected to make to UK research and innovation
excellence and wider society; and
(c) if evidencing exceptional talent, provide a letter
from an additional eminent person in the applicant’s
field, which includes all of the following:
(i) a statement confirming that the author is a
senior member of a reputable UK organisation
concerned with research or innovation in the
applicant’s field; and
(ii) how the author considers the applicant’s work
to show exceptional talent; and
(iii) the contribution the applicant would be
expected to make to UK research or innovation
excellence and wider society; and
(iv) a statement confirming that the author’s
assessment is provided on the basis of their
capacity as an objective expert in their field and
is an objective assessment of the applicant’s
reputation in the field, notwithstanding any
personal knowledge they may have of the
applicant or any direct involvement they may
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-talent

Page 17 of 38

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Talent - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:43 am

have (or previously have had) in the applicant’s
work.

Part 2- Application for entry clearance or
permission on the Global Talent Route
Validity Requirements for Global Talent route
GT 1.1. A person applying for entry clearance or
permission to stay on the Global Talent route must apply
online on the specified form on gov.uk website as
follows:
Applicant

Specified form

EEA national
with a chipped
passport

Either:
• Global Talent using the UK
Immigration: ID Check app (when
available); or
• the forms listed below for
applicants outside or inside the UK
(as relevant)

Applicants
outside the UK

Global Talent visa – stage 2

Applicants inside
the UK

Global Talent permission to stay –
stage 2

GT 1.2. An application for entry clearance or permission
to stay on the Global Talent route must meet all the
following requirements:
(a) any fee and Immigration Health Charge must
have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other travel document which satisfactorily
establishes their identity and nationality; and
(d)the applicant must have been issued with an
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-talent

Page 18 of 38

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Talent - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:43 am

endorsement letter by a Home Office approved
endorsing body or have been awarded a prize listed
in Appendix Global Talent: Prestigious Prizes; and
(e)if applying for the first grant of permission on the
Global Talent route using an endorsement letter, the
date of application must be no more than 3 months
after the date on the endorsement letter; and
(f) the applicant’s endorsement or prize must not
have been withdrawn or suspended.
GT 1.3. If the applicant has in the last 12 months before
the date of application received an award from a
Government or international scholarship agency
covering both fees and living costs for study in the UK,
they must provide written consent to the application
from that Government or agency.
GT 1.4. The applicant must be aged 18 or over on the
date of application.
GT 1.5. If applying for permission to stay, the applicant
must be in the UK on the date of application.
GT 1.5ZA. If applying for permission to stay, the
applicant must not have, or have last been granted,
permission:
(a) as a Visitor; or
(b) as a Short-term Student; or
(c) as a Parent of a Child Student; or
(d) as a Seasonal Worker; or
(e) as a Domestic Worker in a Private Household; or
(f) outside the Immigration Rules.
GT 1.5A. An applicant who is applying for permission to
stay and has, or last had, permission as a Student, must
fulfil one of the Conditions A or B below on the date of
application:
(a) Condition A: the applicant must have completed
the course of study for which the Confirmation of
Acceptance for Studies was assigned (or a course to
which ST 27.3 of Appendix Student applies); or
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-talent

Page 19 of 38

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Talent - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:43 am

(b) Condition B: the applicant must:
(i) be studying a full-time course of study leading
to the award of a PhD with a higher education
provider which has a track record of compliance;
and
(ii) have completed at least 24 months of study
on that course.
GT 1.6. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for the Global Talent route may be
rejected as invalid and not considered.

Suitability Requirements for Global
Talent route
GT 2.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under Part
Suitability.
GT 2.2. If applying for permission to stay the applicant
must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail

Eligibility Requirements for Global
Talent route
Entry requirements for Global Talent route
GT 3.1. A person seeking to come to the UK on the
Global Talent route must apply for and obtain entry
clearance on the Global Talent route before their arrival
in the UK.
GT 3.2. A person applying for entry clearance on the
Global Talent route must, if Appendix Tuberculosis
applies, provide a valid medical certificate confirming
that they have undergone screening for active
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-talent

Page 20 of 38

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Talent - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:43 am

pulmonary tuberculosis and that this tuberculosis is not
present in them.
Points requirement for Global Talent route
GT 4.1. An applicant applying for entry clearance or
permission to stay must be awarded 70 points in the
table below.
Requirement

Points
available

An applicant making an initial application
not relying on an endorsement:
• has been awarded a qualifying prize listed
in Appendix Global Talent: Prestigious
Prizes.

70

An applicant making an initial application
relying on an endorsement:
• has been issued with an endorsement
letter by an endorsing body; and
• the date of application is no more than 3
months after the date on the endorsement
letter; and
• the endorsement has not been withdrawn
by the endorsing body.

70

An applicant applying for an extension of
their permission:
• has met the earned money requirement;
and
• if they were granted their initial application
using an endorsement, has not had their
endorsement withdrawn by the endorsing
body.

70

Total number of points required in each
case

70

GT 4.1ZA. An applicant who has held permission on the
Global Talent route in the 12 months immediately before
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-talent

Page 21 of 38

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Talent - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:43 am

the date of application will be considered under the
extension of permission requirements in GT 5.1.
Points for initial application on the Global Talent
route
GT 4.1A. Applicants relying on a prize in Appendix
Global Talent: Prestigious Prizes to score points must
meet both of the following requirements:
(a) they must be the named recipient of the prize
(prizes given to an organisation or group the
applicant is associated with are not acceptable); and
(b) the prize issued by the relevant body must not
have been withdrawn or suspended.
GT 4.2. Applicants relying on an endorsement to score
points must meet both of the following requirements:
(a) the endorsement issued by the endorsing body
must not have been withdrawn; and
(b) the endorsing body must continue to be
approved by the Home Office on the date of
decision.
GT 4.3. If the requirements in GT4.1A or GT 4.2. are
met 70 points will be awarded for an initial application
on the Global Talent route.
Points for extension of stay on the Global Talent
route
GT 5.1. An applicant who has, or last had, permission
on the Global Talent route and is applying for an
extension of permission must meet the following
requirements:
(a) the applicant must have earned money in the UK
during their last period of permission in either:
(i) a field related to the subject matter of their
prize if they were granted their initial application
using a prize listed in Appendix Global Talent:
Prestigious Prizes; or
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-talent

Page 22 of 38

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Talent - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:43 am

(ii) the field in which they were previously
endorsed in the Global Talent route if they were
granted their initial application using an
endorsement; and
(b) if the applicant was granted their initial
application using an endorsement:
(i) the endorsement letter issued by a Home
Office approved endorsing body must not have
been withdrawn; and
(ii) the endorsing body must continue to be
approved by the Home Office on the date of
decision.
GT 5.2. DELETED.
GT 5.3. If the requirements in GT 5.1. are met 70 points
will be awarded for an application for an extension of
stay on the Global Talent route.
Decision on an application on the Global Talent
route
GT 6.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all the
suitability and eligibility requirements for the Global
Talent route are met the application will be granted,
otherwise the application will be refused.
GT 6.2. If the application is refused the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.
Period of grant on the Global Talent route
GT 7.1. Permission will be granted for the period of
years the applicant requests, up to a maximum of 5
years on each application.
GT 7.2. There is no limit on the total period of
permission that may be granted on the Global Talent
route.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-talent

Page 23 of 38

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Talent - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:43 am

Conditions of grant on the Global Talent route
GT 7.3. The grant will be subject to all the following
conditions:
(a) no access to public funds; and
(b) work (including self-employment and voluntary
work) permitted except for employment as a
professional sportsperson (including as a sports
coach); and
(c) study is permitted, subject to the ATAS condition
in Appendix ATAS.
(d) DELETED

Settlement by a person on the Global
Talent route
Validity requirements for settlement by a person on
the Global Talent route
GT 8.1. A person applying for settlement on the Global
Talent route must apply online on the gov.uk website on
the specified form “Settle in the UK in various
immigration categories: form SET(O)”.
GT 8.2. An application for settlement on the Global
Talent route must meet all the following requirements:
(a) any fee must have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided any required
biometrics; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other travel document which satisfactorily
establishes their identity and nationality; and
(d) the applicant must be in the UK; and
(e) the applicant’s endorsement or prize listed in
Appendix Global Talent: Prestigious Prizes must not
have been withdrawn or suspended.
GT 8.3. The applicant must have, or have last been
granted, permission on the Global Talent route.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-talent

Page 24 of 38

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Talent - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:43 am

GT 8.4. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for settlement on the Global Talent
route may be rejected as invalid and not considered.
Suitability requirements for settlement by a person
on the Global Talent route
GT 9.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under Part
Suitability.
GT 9.2. The applicant must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.

Eligibility requirements for settlement by
a person on the Global Talent route
Endorsement requirement for settlement by a
person on the Global Talent route
GT 10.1. If the applicant was granted their initial
application using an endorsement, the endorsement
must not have been withdrawn by the endorsing body.
GT 10.2. The applicant must have earned money in the
UK during their last period of permission in the field in
either:
(a) a field related to the subject matter of their prize
if they were granted for their initial application using
a prize listed in Appendix Global Talent: Prestigious
Prizes; or
(b) the field in which they were previously endorsed
in the Global Talent route if they were granted their
initial application using an endorsement.
Qualifying period requirement for settlement by a
person on the Global Talent route
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-talent

Page 25 of 38

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Talent - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:43 am

GT 11.1. The applicant must have spent a continuous
period of 3 years in the UK if:
(a) they were endorsed by the Royal Society, British
Academy, Royal Academy of Engineering or UKRI;
or
(b) they were endorsed under the exceptional talent
criteria by Arts Council England or Tech Nation; or
(c) they were granted their initial application using a
prize listed in Appendix Global Talent: Prestigious
Prizes.
GT 11.2. The applicant must have spent a continuous
period of 5 years in the UK if they were endorsed under
the exceptional promise criteria by Arts Council England
or Tech Nation.
GT 11.3. The continuous period must consist of time
with permission (not as a dependant) on any of (or any
combination of), the following routes:
(a) Global Talent; or
(b) Innovator Founder; or
(c) Skilled Worker; or
(d) T2 Minister of Religion; or
(e) International Sportsperson; or
(f) Tier 1, other than Tier 1 (Graduate Entrepreneur);
or
(g) Scale-up; or
(h) Representative of an Overseas Business.
Continuous residence requirement for settlement by
a person on the Global Talent route
GT 12.1. The applicant must meet the continuous
residence requirement as specified in Appendix
Continuous Residence.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-talent

Page 26 of 38

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Talent - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:43 am

English language requirement for settlement by a
person on the Global Talent route
GT 13.1. Unless an exemption applies, the applicant
must:
(a) Where the date of application is before 26 March
2027, the applicant must, unless an exemption
applies, show English language ability on the
Common European Framework of Reference for
Languages in speaking and listening to at least level
B1; or
(b) Where the date of application is on or after 26
March 2027, the applicant must, unless an
exemption applies, show English language ability on
the Common European Framework of Reference for
Languages in speaking and listening to at least level
B2.
GT 13.2. The applicant must show they meet the
English language requirement as specified in Appendix
English Language.
Knowledge of life in the UK requirement for
settlement by a person on the Global Talent route
GT 14.1. The applicant must meet the Knowledge of
Life in the UK requirement as set out in Appendix KOL
UK.
Decision on an application for settlement as a
person on the Global Talent route
GT 15.1. If the decision maker is satisfied all the
suitability and eligibility requirements are met for
settlement on the Global Talent route the applicant will
be granted settlement, otherwise the application will be
refused.
GT 15.2. If the application is refused the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-talent

Page 27 of 38

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Talent - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:43 am

Dependants on the Global Talent route
Validity requirements for a dependent partner or
dependent child on the Global Talent route
GT 16.1. A person applying for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a dependent partner or dependent
child on the Global Talent route must apply online on the
gov.uk website on the specified form as follows:
Applicant

Specified form

EEA
national
with a
chipped
passport

Either (as applicable):
• Dependant partner or dependant child
using the UK Immigration: ID Check app;
or
• the forms listed below for dependant
applicants outside or inside the UK as
relevant.

Applicants
outside
the UK

Dependant partner visa
Dependant child visa

Applicants
inside the
UK

If the dependant is applying at the same
time as the Global talent applicant, they
can be included in the form “Global talent –
stage 2” where the form allows dependants
to be added. Otherwise:
– Dependant partner
– Dependant child

GT 16.2. An application for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a partner or child of a person on
the Global Talent route must meet all the following
requirements:
(a) any fee and Immigration Health Charge must
have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-talent

Page 28 of 38

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Talent - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:43 am

other travel document which satisfactorily
establishes their identity and nationality; and
(d) the applicant must be applying as partner or child
of a person (P) who:
(i) has made a valid application for entry
clearance or permission to stay on the Global
Talent route that has not been decided; or
(ii) has entry clearance or permission to stay on
the Global Talent route; or
(iii) is settled or has become a British citizen,
providing that P had permission on the Global
Talent route when they settled and the applicant
either had permission as their partner or child at
that time, or the applicant is applying as a child
of P and the applicant was born in the UK before
P settled.
GT 16.3. A person applying as a dependent partner
must be aged 18 or over on the date of application.
GT 16.4 DELETED.
GT 16.5. If applying for permission to stay, the applicant
must be in the UK on the date of application.
GT 16.5ZA. If applying for permission to stay, the
applicant must not have, or have last been granted,
permission: *(a) as a Visitor; or
(b) as a Short-term Student; or
(c) as a Parent of a Child Student; or
(d) as a Seasonal Worker; or
(e) as a Domestic Worker in a Private Household; or
(f) outside the Immigration Rules.
GT 16.5A. An applicant who is applying for permission
to stay and has, or last had, permission as a Student,
must fulfil one of the Conditions A or B below on the
date of application:
(a) Condition A: the applicant must have completed
the course of study for which the Confirmation of
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-talent

Page 29 of 38

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Talent - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:43 am

Acceptance for Studies was assigned (or a course to
which ST 27.3 of Appendix Student applies); or
(b) Condition B: the applicant must:
(i) be studying a full-time course of study leading
to the award of a PhD with a higher education
provider which has a track record of compliance;
and
(ii) have completed at least 24 months of study
on that course.
GT 16.6. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for a partner or child on the Global
Talent route may be rejected as invalid and not
considered.
Suitability requirements for a dependent partner or
dependent child on the Global Talent route
GT 17.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
GT 17.2. If applying for permission to stay the applicant
must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.

Eligibility requirements for a dependent
partner or dependent child on the Global
Talent route
Entry requirement for a dependent partner or
dependent child on the Global Talent route
GT 18.1. A person seeking to come to the UK as a
partner or child must apply for and obtain entry
clearance as a partner or child on the Global Talent
route before they arrive in the UK.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-talent

Page 30 of 38

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Talent - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:43 am

GT 18.2. A person applying for entry clearance as a
partner or child on the Global Talent route must, if
Appendix Tuberculosis applies, provide a valid medical
certificate confirming that they have undergone
screening for active pulmonary tuberculosis and that this
tuberculosis is not present in them.
Relationship requirements for a dependent partner
on the Global Talent route
GT 19.1. The applicant must be the partner of a person
(P) and one of the following must apply:
(a) P has permission on the Global Talent route; or
(b) P is, at the same time, applying for (and is
granted) permission on the Global Talent route; or
(c) P is settled or has become a British citizen,
providing P had permission on the Global Talent
route and the applicant had permission as P’s
partner at that time.
GT 19.2. The requirements of Appendix Relationship
with Partner must be met.
GT 19.3. DELETED
GT 19.4. DELETED
Relationship requirement for a dependent child on
the Global Talent route
GT 20.1. DELETED.
GT 20.2. DELETED.
Care requirement for a dependent child on the
Global Talent route
GT 21.1. DELETED.
Age requirement for a dependent child on the
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-talent

Page 31 of 38

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Talent - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:43 am

Global Talent route
GT 22.1. DELETED.
GT 22.2. DELETED.
Requirements for a dependent child on the Global
Talent route
GT 22A.1. The applicant must meet the following
requirements for a dependent child in Appendix
Children:
(a) relationship requirement: entry clearance and
permission to stay; and
(b) care requirement; and
(c) age and independent life requirement.
Decision on an application as a dependent partner
or dependent child on the Global Talent route
GT 23.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all the
suitability and eligibility requirements for a dependent
partner or dependent child on the Global Talent route
are met, the application will be granted, otherwise the
application will be refused.
GT 23.2. If the application is refused, the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.
Period of grant for a dependent partner or
dependent child on the Global Talent route
GT 24.1. A partner will be granted:
(a) permission which ends on the same date as their
partner’s permission on the Global Talent route; or
(b) 3 years’ permission if the partner was (or is
being) granted settlement on the Global Talent route.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-talent

Page 32 of 38

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Talent - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:43 am

GT 24.2. A child will be granted permission which ends
on the same date as whichever of their parents’
permission ends first, unless both parents have (or are
being granted) settlement or British Citizenship, in which
case the child will be granted permission for 3 years.
Conditions of grant for a dependent partner or
dependent child on the Global Talent route
GT 24.3. The grant will be subject to all the following
conditions:
(a) no access to public funds; and
(b) work (including self-employment and voluntary
work) is permitted, except as a professional
sportsperson or sports coach; and
(c) study is permitted, subject to the ATAS condition
in Appendix ATAS, if the applicant is over age 18.
(d) DELETED

Settlement as a dependent partner or
dependent child on the Global Talent
route
Validity requirements for settlement as a dependent
partner or dependent child on the Global Talent
route
GT 25.1. A person applying for settlement as a
dependent partner or dependent child on the Global
Talent route must apply online on the gov.uk website on
the specified form, “Settle in the UK in various
immigration categories: form SET(O)”.
GT 25.2. An application for settlement as a dependent
partner or dependent child on the Global Talent route
must meet all the following requirements:
(a) any fee must have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-talent

Page 33 of 38

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Talent - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:43 am

(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other travel document which satisfactorily
establishes their identity and nationality; and
(d) the applicant must be in the UK.
(e) the applicant must be applying as a partner or
child of a person (P) who:
(i) has made a valid application for settlement on
the Global Talent route and that application has
not been decided; or
(ii) is settled or has become a British citizen,
providing P had permission on the Global Talent
route when they settled and the applicant either
had permission as their partner or child at that
time or the applicant is applying as a child of P
and the applicant was born in the UK before P
settled.
GT 25.3. An application which does not meet the validity
requirements for settlement as a partner or child on the
Global Talent route may be rejected as invalid and not
considered.
Suitability requirements for settlement as a
dependent partner or dependent child on the Global
Talent route
GT 26.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
GT 26.2. The applicant must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-talent

Page 34 of 38

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Talent - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:43 am

Eligibility requirements for settlement as
a dependent partner or dependent child
on the Global Talent route
Relationship requirement for settlement for a
dependent partner or child on the Global Talent
route
GT 27.1. The applicant must be the partner or child of a
person (P) where one of the following applies:
(a) P is, at the same time, being granted settlement
as a Global Talent; or
(b) P is settled or has become a British citizen,
providing P had permission as a Global Talent when
they settled and the applicant either:
i) had permission as P’s partner or child at that
time; or
ii) is applying as a child of P, and was born in the
UK before P settled.
GT 27.2. The applicant must either:
(a) have last been granted permission as a
dependent partner or dependent child of the person
(P) in GT 27.1.
(b) have been born in the UK and be applying as a
child of the person (P) in GT 27.1.
GT 27.3. If applying as a child, the applicant must meet
the relationship requirement for settlement in Appendix
Children.
GT 27.4. If applying as a partner, the requirements of
Appendix Relationship with Partner must be met.
Care requirement for settlement as a dependent
child on the Global Talent route
GT 28.1. DELETED.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-talent

Page 35 of 38

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Talent - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:43 am

Age requirement for settlement as a dependent
child on the Global talent route
GT 29.1. DELETED.
GT 29.2. DELETED.
Requirements for settlement as a dependent child
on the Global Talent route
GT 29A.1. The applicant must meet the following
requirements for a dependent child in Appendix
Children:
(a) care requirement; and
(b) age and independent life requirement.
Qualifying period requirement for settlement as a
dependent partner on the Global Talent route
GT 30.1. The applicant must have spent a continuous
period of 5 years in the UK with permission as a
dependent partner of the person (P) in GT 27.1.
Continuous residence requirement for settlement as
a dependent partner of on the Global Talent route
GT 31.1. The applicant must meet the continuous
resident requirement as set out in Appendix Continuous
Residence during the period in GT 30.1.
English language requirement for a dependent
partner or dependent child on the Global Talent
route
GT 32.1. Unless an exemption applies, the applicant
must:
(a) Where the date of application is before 26 March
2027, the applicant must, unless an exemption
applies, show English language ability on the
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-talent

Page 36 of 38

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Talent - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:43 am

Common European Framework of Reference for
Languages in speaking and listening to at least level
B1; or
(b) Where the date of application is on or after 26
March 2027, the applicant must, unless an
exemption applies, show English language ability on
the Common European Framework of Reference for
Languages in speaking and listening to at least level
B2.
GT 32.2. The applicant must show they meet the
English language requirement as specified in Appendix
English Language.
Knowledge of life in the UK requirement for
settlement as a dependent partner or dependent
child on the Global Talent route
GT 33.1 If the applicant is aged 18 or over on the date
of application, they must meet the knowledge of Life in
the UK requirement as set out in Appendix KOL UK.
Decision on an application for settlement as a
dependent partner or dependent child on the Global
Talent route
GT 34.1. If the decision maker is satisfied all the
suitability and eligibility requirements are met for
settlement as a dependent partner or dependent child
on the Global Talent route, the applicant will be granted
settlement, otherwise the application will be refused.
GT 34.2. If the application is refused the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-talent

Page 37 of 38

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Talent - Guidance - GOV.UK

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-talent

07/05/2026, 11:43 am

© Crown copyright

Page 38 of 38

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Talent: Prestigious Prizes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:44 am

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix Global Talent:
Prestigious Prizes
Global Talent: Prestigious Prizes
Applicants who hold one of the following prestigious
prizes are eligible to apply for a Global Talent visa
without the need to obtain an endorsement. These
prizes have been identified by the relevant Global Talent
endorsing bodies as demonstrating exceptional talent.
Table 1: Arts and culture prizes
Qualifying Prize

Name of Awarding Body

Bessie – Outstanding
Performer

The New York Dance and
Performance Awards
(The Bessie Awards)

Booker Prize

The Booker Prizes

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-talent-prestigious-prizes

Page 1 of 16

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Talent: Prestigious Prizes - Guidance - GOV.UK

Brit Awards - International
Artist

British Phonographic
Industry

Brit Awards – International
Female

British Phonographic
Industry

Brit Awards – International
Male

British Phonographic
Industry

Critics Circle Award – Best
Male

Critics’ Circle National
Dance Awards

Critics Circle Award – Best
Female

Critics’ Circle National
Dance Awards

Dorothy and Lillian Gish
Prize

JP Morgan Chase

Grammy Award - Lifetime
Achievement Award

The Recording Academy

Hugo Boss Prize

Guggenheim Foundation

ICMA – Artist of the year

International Classical
Music Awards

ICMA – Lifetime
Achievement Award

International Classical
Music Awards

International Booker Prize

The Booker Prizes

International Chopin Piano
Competition – First place

Fryderyk Chopin Institute
of Warsaw

International Dublin Literary
Award

International Dublin
Literary Award

MOBO – Best International
Act

MOBO Organisation

Olivier Award – Best Actor

Society of London
Theatre

Olivier Award – Best

Society of London

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-talent-prestigious-prizes

07/05/2026, 11:44 am

Page 2 of 16

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Talent: Prestigious Prizes - Guidance - GOV.UK

Actress

Theatre

Olivier Award – Best
Director

Society of London
Theatre

Olivier Award – Best
Original Score or New
Orchestrations

Society of London
Theatre

Olivier Award – Best
Theatre Choreographer

Society of London
Theatre

Olivier Award –
Outstanding Achievement
in Dance

Society of London
Theatre

Olivier Award –
Outstanding Achievement
in Music

Society of London
Theatre

Olivier Award –
Outstanding Achievement
in Opera

Society of London
Theatre

Queen Elisabeth
Competition – Cello - First
Prize

Queen Elisabeth
Competition

Queen Elisabeth
Competition – Piano - First
Prize

Queen Elisabeth
Competition

Queen Elisabeth
Competition – Violin - First
Prize

Queen Elisabeth
Competition

Queen Elisabeth
Competition – Voice - First
Prize

Queen Elisabeth
Competition

Tchaikovsky Prize – Grand
Prix

International Tchaikovsky
Competition

Tony Award – Best

The American Theatre

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-talent-prestigious-prizes

07/05/2026, 11:44 am

Page 3 of 16

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Talent: Prestigious Prizes - Guidance - GOV.UK

Performance by an Actor in
a Leading Role in a Play

Wing and The Broadway
League

Tony Award – Best
Performance by an Actress
in a Leading Role in a Play

The American Theatre
Wing and The Broadway
League

Tony Award – Best
Performance by an Actor in
a Leading Role in a Musical

The American Theatre
Wing and The Broadway
League

Tony Award – Best
Performance by an Actress
in a Leading Role in a
Musical

The American Theatre
Wing and The Broadway
League

Tony Award – Best
Direction of a Play

The American Theatre
Wing and The Broadway
League

Tony Award– Best Direction
of a Musical

The American Theatre
Wing and The Broadway
League

Tony Award – Best
Choreography

The American Theatre
Wing and The Broadway
League

Tony Award – Special Tony
Award for Lifetime
Achievement in the Theatre

The American Theatre
Wing and The Broadway
League

Van Cliburn International
Piano Competition – Gold
Medallist

Van Cliburn Foundation

Wihuri Sibelius Prize

Wihuri Foundation

WOMEX – Artist Award

WOMEX – Artist Award

07/05/2026, 11:44 am

Table 2: Architecture prizes
Qualifying Prize

Name of Awarding Body

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-talent-prestigious-prizes

Page 4 of 16

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Talent: Prestigious Prizes - Guidance - GOV.UK

Pritzker Prize

Hyatt Foundation

Royal Gold Medal

Royal Institute of British Architects

07/05/2026, 11:44 am

Table 3: Fashion design industry prizes
Qualifying Prize

Name of Awarding Body

Fashion Award –
Accessories Designer of
the Year

The Fashion Awards –
British Fashion Council

Fashion Award – BFC
Foundation Award

The Fashion Awards –
British Fashion Council

Fashion Award – Designer
of the Year

The Fashion Awards –
British Fashion Council

Fashion Award –
Outstanding Achievement

The Fashion Awards –
British Fashion Council

Table 4: Film and television
Qualifying Prize

Name of
Awarding
Body

Academy Awards – Actor in a Leading
Role

Academy of
Motion
Picture Arts
and Sciences

Academy Awards – Actress in a
Leading Role

Academy of
Motion
Picture Arts
and Sciences

Academy Awards – Best Actor in a
Supporting Role

Academy of
Motion
Picture Arts
and Sciences

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-talent-prestigious-prizes

Page 5 of 16

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Talent: Prestigious Prizes - Guidance - GOV.UK

Academy Awards – Best Actress in a
Supporting Role

Academy of
Motion
Picture Arts
and Sciences

Academy Awards – Cinematography

Academy of
Motion
Picture Arts
and Sciences

Academy Awards – Directing

Academy of
Motion
Picture Arts
and Sciences

Academy Awards – Writing (Adapted
Screenplay)

Academy of
Motion
Picture Arts
and Sciences

Academy Awards – Writing (Original
Screenplay)

Academy of
Motion
Picture Arts
and Sciences

BAFTA – Director (Film)

British
Academy of
Film and
Television
Arts

BAFTA – Leading Actor (Film)

British
Academy of
Film and
Television
Arts

BAFTA – Leading Actress (Film)

British
Academy of
Film and
Television
Arts

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-talent-prestigious-prizes

07/05/2026, 11:44 am

Page 6 of 16

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Talent: Prestigious Prizes - Guidance - GOV.UK

BAFTA – Supporting Actor (Film)

British
Academy of
Film and
Television
Arts

BAFTA – Supporting Actress (Film)

British
Academy of
Film and
Television
Arts

BAFTA - Leading Actor (Television)

British
Academy of
Film and
Television
Arts

BAFTA - Leading Actress (Television)

British
Academy of
Film and
Television
Arts

BAFTA - Supporting Actor (Television)

British
Academy of
Film and
Television
Arts

BAFTA - Supporting Actress
(Television)

British
Academy of
Film and
Television
Arts

Golden Globes – Best Performance by
a Female Actor in a Motion Picture Drama

Hollywood
Foreign Press
Association

Golden Globes – Best Performance by
a Male Actor in a Motion Picture Drama

Hollywood
Foreign Press
Association

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-talent-prestigious-prizes

07/05/2026, 11:44 am

Page 7 of 16

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Talent: Prestigious Prizes - Guidance - GOV.UK

Golden Globes – Best Performance by
a Female Actor in a Motion Picture –
Musical or Comedy

Hollywood
Foreign Press
Association

Golden Globes – Best Performance by
a Male Actor in a Motion Picture Musical or Comedy

Hollywood
Foreign Press
Association

Golden Globes – Best Director - Motion
Picture

Hollywood
Foreign Press
Association

Golden Globes – Best Screenplay Motion Picture

Hollywood
Foreign Press
Association

Golden Globes – Best Performance by
a Female Actor in a Supporting Role in
any Motion Picture

Hollywood
Foreign Press
Association

Golden Globes – Best Performance by
a Male Actor in a Supporting Role in
any Motion Picture

Hollywood
Foreign Press
Association

Golden Globes – Best Performance by
a Female Actor in a Supporting Role in
a Television Series - Drama

Hollywood
Foreign Press
Association

Golden Globes – Best Performance by
a Male Actor in a Supporting Role in a
Television Series - Drama

Hollywood
Foreign Press
Association

Golden Globes – Best Performance by
a Female Actor in a Limited Series,
Anthology Series, or a Motion Picture
Made for Television

Hollywood
Foreign Press
Association

Golden Globes – Best Performance by
a Male Actor in a Limited Series,
Anthology Series, or a Motion Picture
Made for Television

Hollywood
Foreign Press
Association

Golden Globes – Best Performance by
a Female Actor in a Television Series –

Hollywood
Foreign Press

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-talent-prestigious-prizes

07/05/2026, 11:44 am

Page 8 of 16

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Talent: Prestigious Prizes - Guidance - GOV.UK

Musical or Comedy

Association

Golden Globes – Best Performance by
a Male Actor in a Television Series –
Musical or Comedy

Hollywood
Foreign Press
Association

Golden Globes - Best Performance by
a Female Actor in a Supporting Role on
Television

Hollywood
Foreign Press
Association

Golden Globes - Best Performance by
a Male Actor in a Supporting Role on
Television

Hollywood
Foreign Press
Association

Golden Globes – Carol Burnett Award

Hollywood
Foreign Press
Association

Golden Globes – Cecil B. deMille
Award

Hollywood
Foreign Press
Association

07/05/2026, 11:44 am

Table 5: Digital technology prizes
Qualifying
Prize

Name of Awarding Body

ACM Prize in
Computing

Association for Computing Machinery
(ACM)

BCS Lovelace
Medal

British Computing Society

Computer
Pioneer Award
in Honor
Women of the
ENIAC
Computer
Pioneer Award

IEEE Computer Society

Eckert–
Mauchly

Association for Computing Machinery
(ACM) & IEEE Computer Society

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-talent-prestigious-prizes

Page 9 of 16

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Talent: Prestigious Prizes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:44 am

Award
Gödel Prize

European Association for Theoretical
Computer Science (EATCS) and
Special Interest Group on Algorithms
and Computation Theory of the
Association for Computing Machinery
(ACM SIGACT)

IEEE John
von Neumann
Medal

Institute of Electrical and Electronics
Engineers (IEEE)

Ken Kennedy
Award

Association for Computing Machinery
(ACM) & IEEE Computer Society

Turing Award

Association for Computing Machinery
(ACM)

W. Wallace
McDowell
Award

IEEE Computer Society

Table 6: Science, engineering, humanities, social
science and medicine prizes
Qualifying Prize

Name of Awarding Body

Abel Prize

Norwegian Academy of
Science and Letters

AF Harvey Engineering
Research Prize

Institution of Engineering and
Technology

Albert Lasker Basic
Medical Research
Award

Lasker Foundation

Annual Review Prize
Lecture

Physiological Society

Bakerian Medal and
Lecture

Royal Society

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-talent-prestigious-prizes

Page 10 of 16

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Talent: Prestigious Prizes - Guidance - GOV.UK

Balzan Prize

International Balzan Prize
Foundation

Benjamin Franklin
Medal

Franklin Institute

Berggruen Prize for
Philosophy and Culture

Berggruen Institute

Breakthrough Prize in
Fundamental Physics

Breakthrough Prize Board

Breakthrough Prize in
Life Sciences

Breakthrough Prize Board

Breakthrough Prize in
Mathematics

Breakthrough Prize Board

Blue Planet Prize

Asahi Glass Foundation

Cadman Award

Energy Institute

Canada Gairdner
International Award

Gairdner Foundation

Centenary Prize

Royal Society of Chemistry

Charles Stark Draper
Prize for Engineering

US National Academy of
Engineering

Copley Medal

Royal Society

Crafoord Prize

Royal Swedish Academy of
Sciences and Crafoord
Foundation

Croonian Medal and
Lecture

Royal Society

Davis Medal

IChemE

Distinguished
Fellowship

British Computing Society

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-talent-prestigious-prizes

07/05/2026, 11:44 am

Page 11 of 16

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Talent: Prestigious Prizes - Guidance - GOV.UK

Ewald Prize

International Union of
Crystallography

Faraday Medal

Institution of Engineering and
Technology

Fields Medal

International Mathematical
Union

Fritz J. and Dolores H.
Russ Prize

National Academy of
Engineering

Fyssen Internation
Prize

Fondation Fyssen

Gold Medal

Institution of Civil Engineers

Gruber Cosmology
Prize

Gruber Foundation

Gruber Genetics Prize

Gruber Foundation

Gruber Neuroscience
Prize

Gruber Foundation

Holberg Prize

Holberg Committee

Honorary Membership

British Ecological Society

Humboldt Research
Award

Alexander von Humboldt
Foundation

IEEE Medal of Honor

Institute of Electrical and
Electronics Engineers (IEEE)

IJCAI Award for
Research Excellence

International Joint
Conferences on Artificial
Intelligence Organisation
(IJCAI)

INCOSE Pioneer Award

International Council on
Systems Engineering

IMU Abacus Medal

International Mathematical

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-talent-prestigious-prizes

07/05/2026, 11:44 am

Page 12 of 16

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Talent: Prestigious Prizes - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:44 am

Union
Individual Gold Medal

Royal Aeronautical Society

International Award

Biochemical Society

International Medal

Institution of Civil Engineers

Isaac Newton Medal
and Award

Institute of Physics

IStructE Gold Medal

Institution of Structural
Engineers

J J Thompson Medal
for Electronics

Institution of Engineering and
Technology

James Clayton Prize

Institution of Mechanical
Engineers

James Watt
International Gold
Medal

Institution of Mechanical
Engineering

Japan Prize

The Japan Prize Foundation

John W. Kluge Prize for
Achievement in the
Study of Humanity

John W. Kluge Centre

Kavli Prize in
Astrophysics

The Kavli Foundation

Kavli Prize in
Nanoscience

The Kavli Foundation

Kavli Prize in
Neuroscience

The Kavli Foundation

Klaus J. Jacobs
Research Prize

Jacobs Foundation

King Faisal Prize –
Medicine

King Faisal International
Fund

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-talent-prestigious-prizes

Page 13 of 16

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Talent: Prestigious Prizes - Guidance - GOV.UK

King Faisal Prize Science

King Faisal International
Fund

Kyoto Prize –
Advanced Technology

Inamori Foundation

Kyoto Prize – Basic
Science

Inamori Foundation

Kyoto Prize – Arts and
Philosophy

Inamori Foundation

Lagrange-CRT
Foundation Prize

CRT Foundation and ISI
Foundation

Lasker-Bloomberg
Public Service Award

Lasker Foundation

Lasker-Debakey
Clinical Medical
Research Award

Lasker Foundation

Lasker-Koshland
Special Achievement
Award in Medical
Science

Lasker Foundation

L’Oréal-UNESCO
Award for Women in
Science

L’Oréal-UNESCO

Louis-Jeantet Prize

The Louis-Jeantet
Foundation

Marconi Prize

Marconi Society

Melchett Award

Energy Institute

Mensforth
Manufacturing Gold
Medal

Institution of Engineering and
Technology

Millennium Technology
Prize

Technology Academy Finland

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-talent-prestigious-prizes

07/05/2026, 11:44 am

Page 14 of 16

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Talent: Prestigious Prizes - Guidance - GOV.UK

Mountbatten Medal

Institution of Engineering and
Technology

Nine Dots Prize

Kadas Prize Foundation

Nobel Prize - Chemistry

The Royal Swedish Academy
of Sciences

Nobel Prize - Economic
Science

The Royal Swedish Academy
of Sciences

Nobel Prize - Literature

The Swedish Academy

Nobel Prize - Medicine

Nobel Assembly at
Karolinska Institutet

Nobel Prize - Physics

The Royal Swedish Academy
of Sciences

President’s Award

Energy Institute

Prince Phillip Medal

Royal Academy of
Engineering

Princess Royal Silver
Medal

Royal Academy of
Engineering

Queen Elizabeth Prize
for Engineering

The Queen Elizabeth Prize
for Engineering Foundation

Rayleigh Medal

Institute of Acoustics

Robert Koch Award

Robert Koch Foundation

Robert Koch Gold
Medal

Robert Koch Foundation

Royal Medals (the
King’s Medals)

Royal Society

Shaw Prize in
Astronomy

Shaw Prize Foundation

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-talent-prestigious-prizes

07/05/2026, 11:44 am

Page 15 of 16

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Global Talent: Prestigious Prizes - Guidance - GOV.UK

Shaw Prize in Life
Science & Medicine

Shaw Prize Foundation

Shaw Prize in
Mathematical Sciences

Shaw Prize Foundation

Vane Medal

British Pharmacological
Society

W H Pierce Prize

Society for Applied
Microbiology

Wolf Prize - Agriculture

Wolf Foundation

Wolf Prize - Arts

Wolf Foundation

Wolf Prize – Chemistry

Wolf Foundation

Wolf Prize –
Mathematics

Wolf Foundation

Wolf Prize - Medicine

Wolf Foundation

Wolf Prize - Physics

Wolf Foundation

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-global-talent-prestigious-prizes

07/05/2026, 11:44 am

© Crown copyright

Page 16 of 16

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Graduate - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:36 am

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix Graduate
This route is for a Student in the UK who
wants to work, or look for work, following
the successful completion of an eligible
course of study at UK bachelor’s degreelevel or above. The study must have been
with a higher education provider with a
track record of compliance.
The Graduate route is an unsponsored route.
Individuals who already have permission as a
dependant of a Student who is applying on this route
can also apply to extend their permission as a
dependant on this route; other types of dependants are
not permitted on this route.
The Graduate route is not a route to settlement.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-graduate

Page 1 of 12

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Graduate - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:36 am

Validation requirements for a Graduate
GR 1.1. A person applying for permission to stay as a
Graduate must apply online on the gov.uk website on
the specified form “Graduate”.
GR 1.2. An application for permission as a Graduate
must meet all the following requirements:
(a) any fee and Immigration Health Charge must
have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other document which satisfactorily establishes their
identity and nationality; and
(d) the applicant must be in the UK.
GR 1.3. The applicant must have, or have last had,
permission as a Student.
GR 1.4. The applicant must not have been previously
granted permission under the Doctorate Extension
Scheme or as a Graduate.
GR 1.5. If the applicant has in the 12 months before the
date of application completed a course of studies in the
UK for which they have been awarded a scholarship or
sponsorship by a Government or international
scholarship agency covering both fees and living costs
for study in the UK, they must provide written consent to
the application from that Government or agency.
GR 1.6. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for a Graduate may be rejected as
invalid and not considered.

Suitability requirements for a Graduate
GR 2.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-graduate

Page 2 of 12

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Graduate - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:36 am

GR 2.2. The applicant must not be:
(a) in the UK in breach of immigration laws, except
that where the Exceptions for overstayers section of
Part Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will
be disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.

Eligibility requirements for a Graduate
Points requirement
GR 3.1. The applicant must be awarded all 70 points in
the table below.
Points type

Relevant
requirements to be
met

Number of
points

Successful
course
completion

• Successful
completion
requirement
• Qualification
requirement
• Study in the UK
requirement

70

Successful completion requirement
GR 4.1. The applicant must have last been sponsored
by a Student sponsor which is a higher education
provider with a track record of compliance on the date of
application.
GR 4.2. The applicant must have successfully
completed the course of study which was undertaken
during their last grant of permission to study on the
Student route (where the applicant was allowed to
change their course of study without applying for further
permission as a Student, this requirement only applies
to the course to which they changed).
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-graduate

Page 3 of 12

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Graduate - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:36 am

GR 4.3. The student sponsor must have notified the
Home Office, by the date of application, that the
applicant has successfully completed the course of
study in GR 4.2.

Qualification requirement
GR 5.1. The applicant will meet the qualification
requirement if they have successfully completed a
course of study for which they have been or will be
awarded a UK bachelor’s degree, a UK postgraduate
degree, or successfully completed a relevant
qualification listed in GR 5.2.
GR 5.2 A relevant qualification is one of the following:
(a) a law conversion course validated by the
Solicitors Regulation Authority in England and
Wales; or
(b) the Legal Practice Course in England and Wales,
the Solicitors Course in Northern Ireland, or a
Diploma in Professional Legal Practice in Scotland;
or
(c) the Bar Practice Course in England and Wales,
or the Bar Course in Northern Ireland; or
(d) DELETED
(e) a Postgraduate Certificate in Education (PGCE)
or Postgraduate Diploma in Education (PGDE); or
(f) a professional course requiring study at UK
bachelor’s degree level or above in a profession with
reserved activities that is regulated by UK law or UK
public authority.
GR 5.3. If the name of the applicant’s course of study
was changed by the Student sponsor, but the course
content remained the same, or if an integral and
assessed work placement or permitted study abroad
programme was added, this will not prevent the
applicant being able to meet the qualification
requirement.
GR 5.4 The qualification must have been gained during
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-graduate

Page 4 of 12

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Graduate - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:36 am

the last grant of permission to study as a Student, or in
the period of permission immediately before the
applicant’s last grant of permission, if the last grant of
permission was to undertake a role as a Student Union
Sabbatical Officer.

Study in the UK requirement
GR 6.1. The applicant must have held permission as a
Student, which was granted to study the relevant
qualification in the UK, for a minimum period of time (the
relevant period), as in the table below.
Total
length
of
course

Relevant period of Student permission
granted during which all study took place
in the UK (apart from permitted study
abroad programmes)

12
months
or less

Full duration of course

Longer
than
12
months

At least 12 months

GR 6.2. Where distance learning took place overseas
between 24 January 2020 and 30 June 2022, this will
not prevent the applicant meeting the requirement to
spend the relevant period at GR 6.1 studying in the UK
if either:
(a) they began a course of 12 months or less prior to
21 June 2021 and entered the UK on or before 27
September 2021 with permission as a Student; or
(b) they began a course of 12 months or less
between 21 June 2021 and 30 June 2022 and
entered the UK on or before 30 June 2022 with
permission as a Student.
GR 6.3. Any period of distance learning that took place
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-graduate

Page 5 of 12

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Graduate - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:36 am

between 24 January 2020 and 30 June 2022 as part of
a course of study lasting longer than 12 months whilst
the applicant held permission as a Student, will not
prevent the applicant from meeting the requirement to
spend the relevant period at GR 6.1. studying in the UK.

Decision on an application as a
Graduate
GR 7.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all the
suitability and eligibility requirements for a Graduate are
met the application will be granted, otherwise the
application will be refused.
GR 7.2. If the application is refused, the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.

Period of grant for a Graduate
GR 8.1. The applicant will be granted the period of
permission as set out in the table below:
Type of
Qualification

Period granted from date of decision

PhD or other
doctoral
qualification

3 years

All other
qualifications

2 years if the applicant has successfully
completed a course at UK bachelor’s
degree or master’s degree level, or
another relevant qualification that meets
the requirement of ST8.1/2/3 of the
Rules, and the application is made
before 1 January 2027.

All other
qualifications

18 months if the applicant has
successfully completed a course at UK
bachelor’s degree or master’s degree
level, or another relevant qualification

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-graduate

Page 6 of 12

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Graduate - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:36 am

that meets the requirement of ST8.1/2/3
of the Rules, and the application is
made on or after 1 January 2027.

Conditions of grant for a Graduate
GR 8.2. The grant will be subject to all the following
conditions:
(a) no access to public funds; and
(b) work (including self-employment and voluntary
work) is permitted, apart from work as a professional
sportsperson; and
(c) study is permitted, except study with an
education provider which is a Student sponsor, and
which would meet the approved qualification and
level of study requirements of the Student route
which are set out in Appendix Student; and
(d) study is subject to the ATAS condition in
Appendix ATAS.
(e) DELETED

Dependants of a Graduate
Validity requirements for a dependent partner or
dependent child of a Graduate
GR 9.1. A person applying for permission to stay as a
partner or child of a Graduate must apply on the
specified form on the gov.uk website as follows:
Either (as applicable):
Dependant partner
Dependant child
GR 9.2. An application for permission to stay as a
partner or child of a Graduate must meet all the
following requirements:
(a) any fee and Immigration Health Charge must
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-graduate

Page 7 of 12

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Graduate - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:36 am

have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other document which satisfactorily establishes their
identity and nationality; and
(d) the applicant must be applying as partner or child
of a person who:
(i) has made a valid application for permission to
stay on the Graduate route that has not been
decided; or
(ii) has permission to stay on the Graduate route.
GR 9.3. If the applicant has in the 12 months before the
date of application completed a course of studies in the
UK for which they have been awarded a scholarship or
sponsorship by a Government or international
scholarship agency covering both fees and living costs
for study in the UK, they must provide written consent to
the application from that Government or agency.
GR 9.4. The applicant must be in the UK on the date of
application.
GR 9.4A. The applicant must meet one of the following
requirements:
(a) they must have, or have last been granted,
permission as a dependent partner of a Student and
that Student is applying for, or has now been
granted, permission to stay in the Graduate route; or
(b) they must have, or have last been granted,
permission as a dependent child of either a Student
or dependent partner of the Student and that
Student is applying for, or has now been granted,
permission to stay in the Graduate route; or
(c) they must be a child born in the UK during the
last grant of Student permission of a Student and
that Student is applying for, or has now been
granted, permission to stay in the Graduate route.
GR 9.5. An application which does not meet all the
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-graduate

Page 8 of 12

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Graduate - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:36 am

validity requirements for a partner or child of a Graduate
may be rejected as invalid and not considered.

Suitability requirements for a dependent
partner or dependent child of a Graduate
GR 10.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
GR 10.2. The applicant must not be:
(a) in the UK in breach of immigration laws, except
that where the Exceptions for overstayers section of
Part Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will
be disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.

Eligibility requirements for a dependent
partner or dependent child of a Graduate
Relationship requirement for dependent partner of a
Graduate
GR 11.1. The applicant must be the partner of a Person
(P) where one of the following applies:
(a) P has permission to stay on the Graduate route;
or
(b) P is, at the same time, applying for (and is
granted) permission to stay on the Graduate route.
GR 11.2. The requirements of Appendix Relationship
with Partner must be met.
GR 11.3. DELETED

Relationship requirement for dependent
child of a Graduate
GR 12.1. DELETED.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-graduate

Page 9 of 12

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Graduate - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:36 am

GR 12.2. DELETED
GR 12.3. DELETED.

Care requirement for dependent child of
a Graduate
GR 13.1. DELETED.

Age requirement for a dependent child
of a Graduate
GR 14.1. DELETED.
GR 14.2. DELETED.

Requirements for a dependent child of a
Graduate
GR 14A.1. The applicant must meet the following
requirements for a dependent child in Appendix
Children:
(a) relationship requirement: entry clearance and
permission to stay; and
(b) care requirement; and
(c) age and independent life requirement.

Decision on an application as a
dependent partner or dependent child of
a Graduate
GR 15.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all the
suitability and eligibility requirements for a dependent
partner or dependent child of a Graduate are met, the
application will be granted, otherwise the application will
be refused.
GR 15.2. If the application is refused, the person can
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-graduate

Page 10 of 12

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Graduate - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:36 am

apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR.

Period of grant for a dependent partner
or dependent child of a Graduate
GR 16.1. A dependent partner will be granted
permission which ends on the same date as the
Graduate partner’s permission.
GR 16.2. A dependent child will be granted permission
which ends on the same date as whichever of their
parents’ permission ends first.

Conditions of grant for a dependent
partner or dependent child of a Graduate
GR 16.3. The grant will be subject to all the following
conditions:
(a) no access to public funds; and
(b) work (including self-employment and voluntary
work) is permitted except as a professional
sportsperson (including as a sports coach); and
(c) study is permitted, subject to the ATAS condition
in Appendix ATAS (if the study will commence when
the person is aged over 18).
(d) DELETED

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-graduate

Page 11 of 12

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Graduate - Guidance - GOV.UK

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-graduate

07/05/2026, 11:36 am

© Crown copyright

Page 12 of 12

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Gurkha and Hong…nit veteran discharged before 1 July 1997 - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:05 pm

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix Gurkha and Hong
Kong military unit veteran discharged before
1 July 1997
This route is for Gurkhas or Hong Kong
military unit veterans who were discharged
before 1 July 1997 to settle in the UK.
An application can be made from in the UK or overseas.
The partner, children and dependent adult children of a
Gurkha or Hong Kong military unit veteran discharged
before 1 July 1997 can also apply to settle on this route.
The partner or child of a deceased Gurkha or Hong
Kong military unit veteran discharged before 1 July 1997
can also apply to settle on this route.
Gurkhas or Hong Kong military unit veterans discharged
on or after 1 July 1997 must refer to Appendix Armed
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-ap…-and-hong-kong-military-unit-veteran-discharged-before-1-july-1997

Page 1 of 11

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Gurkha and Hong…nit veteran discharged before 1 July 1997 - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:05 pm

Forces.

Requirements for entry clearance and
settlement for a Gurkha and Hong Kong
military unit veteran discharged before 1
July 1997
Validity requirements for a Gurkha or Hong Kong
military unit veteran discharged before 1 July 1997
AF (GHK) 1.1. A person applying from outside the UK
must apply online for entry clearance on the gov.uk
website on the specified form VAF AF, or in person at
the Visa Application Centre in Kathmandu.
AF (GHK) 1.2. A person applying in the UK must apply
online on the gov.uk website on the specified form
SET(AF).
AF (GHK) 1.3. An application must meet all the following
requirements:
(a) any fee must have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other document which satisfactorily establishes their
identity and nationality.
AF (GHK) 1.4. An application which does not meet all
the validity requirements may be rejected as invalid and
not considered.
Suitability requirements for a Gurkha or Hong Kong
military unit veteran discharged before 1 July 1997
AF (GHK) 2.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal
under Part Suitability.
AF (GHK) 2.2. If the applicant is in the UK on the date of
application, they must not be in breach of immigration
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-ap…-and-hong-kong-military-unit-veteran-discharged-before-1-july-1997

Page 2 of 11

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Gurkha and Hong…nit veteran discharged before 1 July 1997 - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:05 pm

laws, except that where the Exceptions for overstayers
section of Part Suitability applies, that period of
overstaying will be disregarded.
Eligibility requirements for a Gurkha or Hong Kong
military unit veteran discharged before 1 July 1997
Entry requirements
AF (GHK) 3.1. A person seeking to come to the UK
must apply for and obtain entry clearance as a Gurkha
or Hong Kong military veteran before they arrive in the
UK.
AF (GHK) 3.2. A person applying must, if Appendix
Tuberculosis applies, provide a valid medical certificate
confirming that they have undergone screening for
active pulmonary tuberculosis and that this tuberculosis
is not present in them.

Military Service Eligibility requirements
AF (GHK) 4.1. The applicant must be one of the
following:
(a) a national or citizen of Nepal who served in the
Brigade of Gurkhas of the British Army and was
discharged before 1 July 1997; or
(b) a national or citizen of China, enlisted in Hong
Kong (Hong Kong Chinese locally enlisted
personnel) who served in the Hong Kong Military
Service Corps (HKMSC) of the British Army and was
discharged before 1 July 1997; or
(c) a national or citizen of China, enlisted in Hong
Kong (Hong Kong Chinese locally enlisted
personnel) who served in the Hong Kong Squadron
of the Royal Navy and was discharged before 1 July
1997.
AF (GHK) 4.2. The applicant’s established military
service must have been for a continuous period of at
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-ap…-and-hong-kong-military-unit-veteran-discharged-before-1-july-1997

Page 3 of 11

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Gurkha and Hong…nit veteran discharged before 1 July 1997 - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:05 pm

least 4 years, unless one or more of the following
applies:
(a) the applicant is in receipt of a Ministry of Defence
(MoD) disability pension; or
(b) the applicant has a medal awarded by the MoD
for gallantry.

Decision on an application as a Gurkha
or Hong Kong military unit veteran
discharged from service before 1 July
1997.
AF (GHK) 5.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all
the suitability and eligibility requirements for entry
clearance or settlement for a Gurkha or Hong Kong
military unit veteran are met, the application will be
granted; otherwise, the application will be refused.
AF (GHK) 5.2. If the application is refused the person
can apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix
AR: Administrative Review.

Period and conditions of grant for a
Gurkha or Hong Kong military unit
veteran discharged from service before
1 July 1997
AF (GHK) 6.1. Where the applicant is outside the UK,
they will be granted entry clearance for settlement.
AF (GHK) 6.2. Where the applicant is in the UK, they
will be granted settlement.

Partner, bereaved partner or dependent
child (“child”) of a Gurkha or Hong Kong
military unit veteran.
Validity requirements for a partner, bereaved partner
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-ap…-and-hong-kong-military-unit-veteran-discharged-before-1-july-1997

Page 4 of 11

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Gurkha and Hong…nit veteran discharged before 1 July 1997 - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:05 pm

or child of a Gurkha or Hong Kong military unit
veteran
AF (GHK) 7.1. A person applying from outside the UK
must apply online on the gov.uk website on the specified
form VAF AF, or in person at the Visa Application Centre
in Kathmandu.
AF (GHK) 7.2. A person applying in the UK, must apply
online on the gov.uk website on the specified form
SET(AF).
AF (GHK) 7.3. An application as a partner, bereaved
partner or child of a Gurkha or Hong Kong military unit
veteran must meet all the following requirements:
(a) any fee must have been paid (unless the
applicant has been granted a fee waiver); and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other document that satisfactorily establishes their
identity and nationality.
AF (GHK) 7.4. An applicant applying as a partner must
be aged 18 or over on the date of application.
AF (GHK) 7.5. An application which does not meet all
the validity requirements for a partner, bereaved partner
or child of a Gurkha or Hong Kong military unit veteran
may be rejected as invalid and not considered.
Suitability requirements for a partner, bereaved
partner or child of a Gurkha or Hong Kong military
unit veteran
AF (GHK) 8.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal
under Part Suitability.
AF (GHK) 8.2. If the applicant is in the UK on the date of
application, they must not in breach of immigration laws,
except that, where the Exceptions for overstayers
section of Part Suitability applies, any current period of
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-ap…-and-hong-kong-military-unit-veteran-discharged-before-1-july-1997

Page 5 of 11

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Gurkha and Hong…nit veteran discharged before 1 July 1997 - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:05 pm

overstaying will be disregarded.
Eligibility requirements for a partner, bereaved
partner or child of a Gurkha or Hong Kong military
unit veteran
AF (GHK) 9.1. The applicant must be the partner or
child of a person where the person:
(a) has entry clearance or settlement as a Gurkha or
Hong Kong military unit veteran under the pre-1997
Gurkha scheme (Gurkhas discharged before 1 July
1997 and their family members concession
published on GOV.UK from 2008 to 2023), or
Appendix Gurkha and Hong Kong military unit
veteran discharged before 1 July 1997; or
(b) is, at the same time, applying for (and is granted)
entry clearance or settlement as a Gurkha or Hong
Kong military unit veteran under Appendix Gurkha
and Hong Kong military unit veteran discharged
before 1 July 1997; or
(c) is a deceased Gurkha or Hong Kong military unit
veteran.
Entry requirement for a partner, bereaved partner or
child of a Gurkha or member of a Hong Kong
military unit veteran
AF (GHK) 10.1. A person seeking to come to the UK as
the partner, bereaved partner or child of a Gurkha or
Hong Kong military unit veteran must have obtained
entry clearance before they arrive in the UK.
AF (GHK) 10.2. A person seeking to come to the UK as
the partner, bereaved partner or child of a Gurkha or
Hong Kong military unit veteran must, if Appendix
Tuberculosis applies, provide a valid medical certificate
confirming that they have undergone screening for
active pulmonary tuberculosis and that this tuberculosis
is not present in them.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-ap…-and-hong-kong-military-unit-veteran-discharged-before-1-july-1997

Page 6 of 11

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Gurkha and Hong…nit veteran discharged before 1 July 1997 - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:05 pm

Relationship requirements of a partner, bereaved
partner of a Gurkha or Hong Kong military unit
veteran
AF (GHK) 11.1. If applying as a partner, other than a
bereaved partner, the requirements of Appendix
Relationship with Partner must be met.
AF (GHK) 11.2. If the applicant is applying as a
bereaved partner, they must provide a death certificate
for the Gurkha or Hong Kong military unit veteran.
AF (GHK) 11.3. If the applicant is applying as a
bereaved partner, the following requirements must be
met:
(a) if the applicant is applying as a bereaved partner
of a Hong Kong military unit veteran, and they or
their partner was in a polygamous marriage or civil
partnership at the time of the veteran’s death, they
may only rely on that marriage or civil partnership for
the purposes of an application for entry clearance or
settlement as a partner where no other partner to
the marriage or civil partnership is seeking, or has
been granted entry clearance or settlement;
(b) a bereaved partner of a Gurkha must be:
(i) the first or only partner on the Kindred Roll; or
(ii) the next in turn according to the order in
which they were registered on the Kindred Roll, if
the applicant can show that the first partner has
permanently waived their right to come to the
UK; and
(c) the applicant must show that their deceased
partner either:
(i) had, before their death, been granted entry
clearance or settlement as a Gurkha or Hong
Kong military unit veteran under the pre-1997
Gurkha concession or under Appendix Gurkha
and Hong Kong military unit veteran discharged
before 1 July 1997; or
(ii) would have met the requirements for entry
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-ap…-and-hong-kong-military-unit-veteran-discharged-before-1-july-1997

Page 7 of 11

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Gurkha and Hong…nit veteran discharged before 1 July 1997 - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:05 pm

clearance or settlement as a Gurkha or Hong
Kong military unit veteran under Appendix
Gurkha and Hong Kong military unit veteran
discharged from service before 1 July 1997, had
they not died; and
(d) the applicant must not have remarried; and
(e) the relationship between the applicant and their
partner must have been genuine and subsisting at
the date of the Gurkha’s or Hong Kong military unit
veteran’s death.
Relationship requirements for a child of a Gurkha or
Hong Kong military unit veteran discharged before 1
July 1997
AF (GHK) 12.1. The applicant must be the child of a
Gurkha or Hong Kong military unit veteran who has
been or is being granted settlement as a Gurkha or
Hong Kong military unit veteran.
AF (GHK) 12.2. If the Gurkha or Hong Kong military unit
veteran is deceased at the date of application
(“bereaved child”), the applicant must show that their
parent either:
a) before their death had been granted entry
clearance or settlement as a Gurkha or Hong Kong
military unit veteran under the pre-1997 Gurkha
scheme (Gurkhas discharged before 1 July 1997
and their family members concession published on
GOV.UK from 2008 to 2023) or under Appendix
Gurkha and Hong Kong military unit veteran
discharged before 1 July 1997; or
b) would have met the requirements for settlement
as a Gurkha or Hong Kong military unit veteran
under Appendix Gurkha and Hong Kong military unit
veteran discharged from service before 1 July 1997
had they not died.
AF (GHK) 12.3. If the applicant is applying as a
bereaved child of a Gurkha or Hong Kong military unit
veteran discharged from service before 1 July 1997,
they must provide a death certificate for the Gurkha or
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-ap…-and-hong-kong-military-unit-veteran-discharged-before-1-july-1997

Page 8 of 11

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Gurkha and Hong…nit veteran discharged before 1 July 1997 - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:05 pm

Hong Kong military unit veteran.
Child requirements for a child of a Gurkha or Hong
Kong military unit veteran discharged before 1 July
1997
AF (GHK) 13.1. If the applicant is aged under 18 on the
date of application, the applicant must meet the
following requirements for a dependent child in
Appendix Children:
(a) care requirement; and
(b) age and independent life requirement.
AF (GHK) 13.2. If the applicant is aged 18 or over on
the date of application, they must meet all of the
following requirements:
(a) they must have been aged under 18 on the date
the Gurkha or Hong Kong military unit veteran
parent was discharged; and
(b) they must be living in the same household as the
Gurkha or Hong Kong military unit veteran parent;
and
(c) they must not have been living in a different
household from the Gurkha or Hong Kong military
unit veteran parent for more than 2 years
continuously before the date of application; and
(d) they must never have lived in a different
household from the Gurkha or Hong Kong military
unit veteran parent for more than 2 years
continuously, unless this was by reason of education
or something similar (such that the family unit was
maintained during the period when the applicant did
not live in the same household); and
(e) have not formed an independent family unit.
Eligibility requirement for a child of a Gurkha or
Hong Kong military unit veteran discharged before 1
July 1997 relying on Article 8 of the European
Convention on Human Rights
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-ap…-and-hong-kong-military-unit-veteran-discharged-before-1-july-1997

Page 9 of 11

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Gurkha and Hong…nit veteran discharged before 1 July 1997 - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:05 pm

AF (GHK) 13A.1. Where the applicant does not meet
the eligibility requirements of AF (GHK) 13.2. but the
decision maker is satisfied that refusal of the application
would breach Article 8 of the Human Rights Convention
because it would result in unjustifiably harsh
consequences for the applicant or their family, the
applicant will meet the Article 8 ECHR eligibility
requirement.
AF (GHK) 13A.2. Where AF (GHK) 13A.1. applies, and
the applicant falls for refusal under SUI 2.1., SUI 2.3.,
SUI 4.1., or SUI 5.1., of Part Suitability, the application
as a child of a Gurkha or Hong Kong military unit
veteran discharged before 1 July 1997, must be
refused.

Decision on an application as a partner,
bereaved partner or child of a Gurkha or
Hong Kong military unit veteran.
AF (GHK) 14.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all
the suitability and eligibility requirements for either a
partner, bereaved partner or child of a Gurkha or Hong
Kong military unit veteran are met, the application will
be granted; otherwise, the application will be refused.
AF (GHK) 14.2. If the application is refused, the person
can apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix
AR: Administrative Review, except where the applicant
is an Adult Dependent Relative.

Period of grant for partner, bereaved
partner or child of a Gurkha or Hong
Kong military unit veteran
AF (GHK) 15.1. Where the applicant is outside the UK,
they will be granted entry clearance for settlement.
AF (GHK) 15.2. Where the application is in the UK, they
will be granted settlement.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-ap…and-hong-kong-military-unit-veteran-discharged-before-1-july-1997

Page 10 of 11

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Gurkha and Hong…nit veteran discharged before 1 July 1997 - Guidance - GOV.UK

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

07/05/2026, 12:05 pm

© Crown copyright

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-ap…and-hong-kong-military-unit-veteran-discharged-before-1-july-1997

Page 11 of 11

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix High Potential Individual - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:44 am

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix High
Potential Individual
High Potential Individual
This route is for recent graduates of top global
universities, who want to work, or look for work in the
UK, following the successful completion of an eligible
course of study equivalent to UK bachelor’s degree
level or above. The study must have been with an
institution listed on the Global Universities List.
The High Potential Individual route is an unsponsored
route and is capped at a maximum of 8,000 applications
a year.
The allocation year for this route operates between 1
November - 31 October each year.
A dependent partner and dependent children can apply
on this route.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-high-potential-individual

Page 1 of 14

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix High Potential Individual - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:44 am

The High Potential Individual route is not a route to
settlement.

Validity requirements for a High
Potential Individual
HPI 1.1. A person applying for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a High Potential Individual must
apply online on the gov.uk website on the specified form
as follows:
(a) for applicants outside the UK, form “High Potential
Individual visa”; or
(b) for applicants inside the UK, form “High Potential
Individual”.
HPI 1.2. An application for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a High Potential Individual must
meet all the following validity requirements:
(a) any fee and Immigration Health Charge must have
been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics when
required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or other
travel document which satisfactorily establishes their
identity and nationality.
HPI 1.3. The applicant must be aged 18 or over on the
date of application.
HPI 1.4. If the applicant has in the last 12 months before
the date of application received an award from a
Government or international scholarship agency
covering both fees and living costs for study in the UK,
they must provide written consent to the application
from that Government or agency.
HPI 1.5. If applying for permission to stay, the applicant
must be in the UK on the date of application.
HPI 1.5ZA. If applying for permission to stay, the
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-high-potential-individual

Page 2 of 14

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix High Potential Individual - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:44 am

applicant must not have, or have last been granted,
permission:
(a) as a Visitor; or
(b) as a Short-term Student; or
(c) as a Parent of a Child Student; or
(d) as a Seasonal Worker; or
(e) as a Domestic Worker in a Private Household; or
(f) outside the Immigration Rules.
HPI 1.5A. An applicant who is applying for permission to
stay and has, or last had, permission as a Student, must
fulfil one of the Conditions A or B below on the date of
application:
(a) Condition A: the applicant must have completed the
course of study for which the Confirmation of
Acceptance for Studies was assigned (or a course to
which ST 27.3 of Appendix Student applies); or
(b) Condition B: the applicant must:
(i) be studying a full-time course of study leading to
the award of a PhD with a higher education provider
which has a track record of compliance; and
(ii) have completed at least 24 months of study on
that course.
HPI 1.6. The applicant must not have been previously
granted permission under the Student Doctorate
Extension Scheme, as a Graduate or as a High
Potential Individual.
HPI 1.6A The number of applications (for both entry
clearance and permission to stay) must not have
exceeded 8,000, the annual total allocation of places for
the route (where the annual period begins on 1
November and ends on 31 October of each year).
HPI 1.7 An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for a High Potential Individual may
be rejected as invalid and not considered.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-high-potential-individual

Page 3 of 14

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix High Potential Individual - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:44 am

Suitability requirements for a High
Potential Individual
HPI 2.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
HPI 2.2. If applying for permission to stay the applicant
must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.

Eligibility requirements for a High
Potential Individual
Entry requirements for a High Potential Individual
HPI 3.1. A person seeking to come to the UK as a High
Potential Individual must apply for and obtain entry
clearance as a High Potential Individual before they
arrive in the UK.
HPI 3.2. A person applying for entry clearance as a High
Potential Individual must, if Appendix Tuberculosis
applies, provide a valid medical certificate confirming
that they have undergone screening for active
pulmonary tuberculosis and that this tuberculosis is not
present in them.
Points requirement for a High Potential Individual
HPI 4.1. The applicant must be awarded all 70 points in
the table below:
Requirement

Relevant
rules

Points
available

Global Universities List

HPI 5.1 to

50

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-high-potential-individual

Page 4 of 14

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix High Potential Individual - Guidance - GOV.UK

degree requirement

5.4

English Language
requirement at level B2

HPI 6.1 to
6.3

10

Financial requirement

HPI 7.1 to
7.4

10

07/05/2026, 11:44 am

Global Universities List degree requirement
HPI 5.1. The applicant must, in the 5 years immediately
before the date of the application, have been awarded
an overseas degree level academic qualification which
the qualification and language assessments provider
confirms meets, or exceeds, the recognised standard of
a UK bachelor’s or UK postgraduate degree.
HPI 5.2. The institution at which the applicant was
awarded the degree in HPI 5.1 must appear on the
Global Universities List in respect of the date the
applicant was awarded the degree.
HPI 5.3 The date the applicant was awarded the degree
will be the date as confirmed by the qualification and
language assessments provider .
HPI 5.4. If the requirements in HPI 5.1. to HPI 5.3. are
met, the applicant will be awarded 50 points.
English language requirement for High Potential
Individual
HPI 6.1. Unless an exemption applies, the applicant
must show English language ability on the Common
European Framework of Reference for Languages in all
4 components (reading, writing, speaking and listening)
to at least the level specified by HPI 4.1.
HPI 6.2. The applicant must show they meet the English
language requirement as specified in Appendix English
Language.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-high-potential-individual

Page 5 of 14

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix High Potential Individual - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:44 am

HPI 6.3. If the requirements in HPI 6.1. and HPI 6.2. are
met, the applicant will be awarded 10 points for meeting
the English language requirement.
Financial requirement for High Potential Individual
HPI 7.1. If the applicant is applying for permission to
stay and has been in the UK with permission for 12
months or longer on the date of application, they will
meet the financial requirement and do not need to show
funds.
HPI 7.2. An applicant who is applying for entry
clearance, or who is applying for permission to stay and
has been in the UK for less than 12 months at the date
of application, must have funds of at least £1,270.
HPI 7.3. The applicant must show that they have held
the required level of funds for a 28-day period and must
show funds as specified in Appendix Finance.
HPI 7.4. If the requirements in HPI 7.1. to HPI 7.3. are
met, the applicant will be awarded 10 points for meeting
the Financial requirement.

Decision on an application as a High
Potential Individual
HPI 8.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all the
suitability and the relevant eligibility requirements for a
High Potential Individual are met, the application will be
granted, otherwise the application will be refused.
HPI 8.2. If the application is refused the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.

Period of grant for a High Potential
Individual
HPI 9.1. The applicant will be granted entry clearance or
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-high-potential-individual

Page 6 of 14

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix High Potential Individual - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:44 am

permission to stay for the period as set out in the table
below based on the qualification relied on to meet the
Global Universities List degree requirement.
Type of Degree Qualification

Period
granted

PhD or other doctoral level
qualification

3 years

All other degree qualifications

2 years

Conditions of grant for a High Potential
Individual
HPI 9.2. The grant will be subject to all the following
conditions:
(a) no access to public funds; and
(b) work (including self-employment and voluntary work)
is permitted, apart from work as a professional
sportsperson (including as a sports coach); and
(c) study is permitted, except study with an education
provider which is a Student sponsor, and which would
meet the approved qualification and level of study
requirements of the Student route which are set out in
Appendix Student; and
(d) study or research is subject to the ATAS condition in
Appendix ATAS.
(e) DELETED

Dependent partner (“partner”) and
dependent child (“child”) of a High
Potential Individual
Validity requirements for a partner or child of a High
Potential Individual

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-high-potential-individual

Page 7 of 14

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix High Potential Individual - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:44 am

HPI 10.1. A person applying for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a partner or child of a High
Potential Individual must apply online on the gov.uk
website on the specified form as follows:
Location of Partner or
Child

Specified form

Applicant outside the UK

• Dependant partner
visa
• Dependant child visa

Applicant inside the UK

• Dependant partner
• Dependant child

HPI 10.2. An application for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a partner or child of a High
Potential Individual must meet all the following
requirements:
(a) any fee and Immigration Health Charge must have
been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics when
required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or other
travel document which satisfactorily establishes their
identity and nationality; and
(d) the applicant must be applying as partner or child of
a person who:
(i) has made a valid application for entry clearance
or permission to stay on the High Potential Individual
route that has not been decided; or
(ii) has entry clearance or permission on the High
Potential Individual route.
HPI 10.3. A person applying as a partner must be aged
18 or over on the date of application.
HPI 10.4. If applying for permission to stay, the applicant
must be in the UK on the date of application.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-high-potential-individual

Page 8 of 14

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix High Potential Individual - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:44 am

HPI 10.4ZA. If applying for permission to stay, the
applicant must not have, or have last been granted,
permission:
(a) as a Visitor; or
(b) as a Short-term Student; or
(c) as a Parent of a Child Student; or
(d) as a Seasonal Worker; or
(e) as a Domestic Worker in a Private Household; or
(f) outside the Immigration Rules.
HPI 10.4A. An applicant who is applying for permission
to stay and has, or last had, permission as a Student,
must fulfil one of the Conditions A or B below on the
date of application:
(a) Condition A: the applicant must have completed the
course of study for which the Confirmation of
Acceptance for Studies was assigned (or a course to
which ST 27.3 of Appendix Student applies); or
(b) Condition B: the applicant must:
(i) be studying a full-time course of study leading to
the award of a PhD with a higher education provider
which has a track record of compliance; and
(ii) have completed at least 24 months of study on
that course.
HPI 10.5. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements as a partner or child of a High
Potential individual may be rejected as invalid and not
considered.
Suitability requirements for a partner and child of a
High Potential Individual
HPI 11.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
HPI 11.2. If applying for permission to stay the applicant
must not be:
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-high-potential-individual

Page 9 of 14

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix High Potential Individual - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:44 am

(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.

Eligibility requirements for a partner and
child of a High Potential Individual
Entry requirement for a partner and child of a High
Potential Individual
HPI 12.1. A person seeking to come to the UK as a
partner or child of a High Potential Individual must apply
for and obtain entry clearance as a partner or child of a
High Potential Individual before they arrive in the UK.
HPI 12.2. A person applying for entry clearance as the
partner or child of a High Potential Individual must, if
Appendix Tuberculosis applies, provide a valid medical
certificate confirming that they have undergone
screening for active pulmonary tuberculosis and that this
tuberculosis is not present in them.
Relationship requirements for a partner of a High
Potential Individual
HPI 13.1. The applicant must be the partner of a person
(P) and one of the following must apply:
(a) P has permission as a High Potential Individual; or
(b) P is, at the same time, applying for (and is granted)
permission as a High Potential Individual.
HPI 13.2. The requirements of Appendix Relationship
with Partner must be met.
HPI 13.3. DELETED
HPI 13.4. DELETED

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-high-potential-individual

Page 10 of 14

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix High Potential Individual - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:44 am

Relationship requirement for a child on the High
Potential Individual route
HPI 14.1. DELETED.
HPI 14.2. DELETED.
HPI 14.3. DELETED.
Age requirement for a child on the High Potential
Individual route
HPI 15.1. DELETED.
HPI 15.2. DELETED.
Care requirement for a child on the High Potential
Individual route
HPI 16.1. DELETED.
Requirements for a dependent child on the High
Potential Individual route
HPI 16A.1. The applicant must meet the following
requirements for a dependent child in Appendix
Children:
(a) relationship requirement: entry clearance and
permission to stay; and
(b) care requirement; and
(c) age and independent life requirement.
Financial requirement for a partner or child on the
High Potential Individual route
HPI 17.1. If the applicant is applying for permission to
stay and has been living in the UK with permission for
12 months or longer on the date of application, they will
meet the financial requirement and do not need to show
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-high-potential-individual

Page 11 of 14

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix High Potential Individual - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:44 am

funds.
HPI 17.2. If the applicant is applying for entry clearance
or has been in the UK for less than 12 months on the
date of application, funds of at least the amount required
in HPI 17.3 must be held collectively by one or more of
the following: (a) the applicant; and (b) the High
Potential Individual (P); and (c) if the applicant is
applying as a child, their parent who is lawfully in the UK
or being granted entry clearance.
HPI 17.3. The funds required are:
(a) at least £285 for a partner in the UK or applying to
come to the UK; and
(b) at least £315 for the first child in the UK or applying
to come to the UK; and
(c) at least £200 for each additional child in the UK or
applying to come to the UK.
HPI 17.4. The funds held must be in addition to any
funds required by the High Potential Individual to meet
the financial requirement or any dependants in the UK
or applying at the same time.
HPI. 17.5. The required level of funds must have been
held for a 28-day period and as specified in Appendix
Finance.
Decision on an application as a partner and child on
the High Potential Individual route
HPI 18.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all the
suitability and eligibility requirements are met for a
partner or child on the High Potential Individual route,
the application will be granted, otherwise the application
will be refused.
HPI 18.2. If the application is refused the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-high-potential-individual

Page 12 of 14

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix High Potential Individual - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:44 am

Period of grant for a partner and child on the High
Potential Individual route
HPI 19.1. A partner will be granted entry clearance or
permission to stay which ends on the same date as their
partner’s permission as a High Potential Individual.
HPI 19.2. A child will be granted entry clearance or
permission to stay which ends on the same date as their
parents’ permission.
Conditions of grant for a partner and child on the
High Potential Individual route
HPI 19.3. The grant will be subject to all the following
conditions:
(a) no access to public funds; and
(b) work (including self-employment and voluntary work)
is permitted; except from work as a professional
sportsperson (including as a sports coach); and
(c) study is permitted, subject to the ATAS condition in
Appendix ATAS (if the study will commence when the
person is aged over 18).
(d) DELETED

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-high-potential-individual

Page 13 of 14

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix High Potential Individual - Guidance - GOV.UK

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-high-potential-individual

07/05/2026, 11:44 am

© Crown copyright

Page 14 of 14

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix HM
Armed Forces
Immigration Rules Appendix HM Armed
Forces
This route is for members of His Majesty’s (HM) Armed
Forces discharging from service (‘service leavers’) who
wish to come to or stay in the UK. Applications can be
made up to 18 weeks prior to discharge.
Reference to a member of HM Armed Forces or a
service leaver includes an applicant who was a member
of HM Armed Forces but was discharged within the
period of 2 years before the date of the application.
A partner or dependent child of a current member of HM
Armed forces or of a service leaver can also apply on
this route.
An application can be made from in the UK or overseas.
The HM Armed Forces route is a route to settlement.

Those serving in the Reserve Forces cannot apply on
this route.

Requirements for an HM Armed Forces
service leaver
Validity requirements for an application as an HM
Armed Forces service leaver
AF 1.1. If applying from outside the UK, the applicant
must apply online on the gov.uk website on the
specified form “VAF AF”.
AF 1.2. If applying from in the UK, the applicant must
apply online on the gov.uk website on the specified form
“SET(AF)”.
AF 1.3. An application must meet all the following
requirements:
(a) any required fee must have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics,
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other document which satisfactorily establishes their
identity and nationality.
AF 1.4. The applicant must be aged 18 or over on the
date of application.
AF 1.5. An applicant applying for permission to stay
must be in the UK on the date of application.
AF 1.6. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for an HM Armed Forces service
leaver may be rejected as invalid and not considered.
Suitability requirements for an HM Armed Forces
service leaver
AF 2.1. The decision maker must be satisfied that the
applicant should not be refused under Part Suitability.
AF 2.2 If the applicant is in the UK on the date of
application, they must not be:

(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.
Eligibility requirements for HM Armed Forces
AF 3.1. For the purpose of this Appendix, “HM Armed
Forces” means Regular service personnel in the Royal
Navy, the Royal Marines, the Army (including the
Brigade of Gurkhas) and the Royal Air Force, and does
not include the Reserve forces.
Entry requirements for an HM Armed Forces service
leaver
AF 4.1. An applicant seeking to come to the UK must
apply for and obtain entry clearance as a HM Armed
Forces service leaver before they arrive in the UK.
AF 4.2. An applicant must, if Appendix Tuberculosis
applies, provide a valid medical certificate confirming
that they have undergone screening for active
pulmonary tuberculosis and that this tuberculosis is not
present in them.
Military Service requirements for an HM Armed
Forces service leaver
AF 5.1. The applicant must have:
(a) completed at least 4 years’ reckonable service in
HM Armed Forces; or
(b) met the medical discharge requirement in AF
6.1. or AF 6.2.
AF 5.2. “Reckonable service” means service which
counts towards an applicant’s pension, and it starts from
the first day of paid service in HM Armed Forces, if over
18 on that date, or from their 18th birthday, but does not
include time when the applicant is:
(a) absent without leave (AWOL); or

(b) detained in military detention; or
(c) detained and serving a sentence in one of His
Majesty’s Prisons (HMP), Young Offenders
Institutions (YOI) or Youth Justice Board
establishments (YJB); or
(d) on a career break; or
(e) on special unpaid leave, or
(f) on a career intermission; or
(g) on secondment; or
(h) on additional maternity leave or adoption leave
over 40 weeks; or
(i) on additional shared parental leave over 40
weeks; or
(j) on unpaid parental leave.
AF 5.3. On the date of application:
(a) the applicant must be within 18 weeks of their
discharge date; or
(b) the applicant must have been discharged from
HM Armed Forces for less than 2 years; or
(c) in the case of an applicant who was medically
discharged more than 2 years before the date of
application, new information regarding their medical
prognosis is being considered by the decision
maker; or
(d) the applicant must have last been granted entry
clearance or permission to stay as an HM Armed
Forces service leaver.
Medical discharge requirement for a HM Armed
Forces service leaver
AF 6.1. The medical discharge requirement for
settlement as an HM Armed Forces service leaver is
met if the applicant has been medically discharged from
HM Armed Forces and either:
(a) the cause of the medical discharge was
attributable to deployment on operations; or
(b) the cause of medical discharge was attributable
to service and it is appropriate to grant settlement

following consideration of:
(i) the seriousness of the illness or injury; and
(ii) the need for further medical treatment in
relation to the illness or injury and the availability
of such medical treatment in the applicant’s
country of origin; and
(iii) the prognosis for recovery, including whether
the injury or illness will affect the applicant’s
ability to support themselves in their country of
origin; and
(iv) the length of reckonable service in HM
Armed Forces at the time of the applicant’s
medical discharge.
AF 6.2. The medical discharge requirement for
permission to stay as an HM Armed Forces service
leaver is met if AF 6.1. does not apply, but the applicant
has been medically discharged from service in HM
Armed Forces, and:
(a) the cause of the medical discharge was
attributable to service in HM Armed Forces; and
(b) before they can return to their country of origin it
is appropriate to grant permission to stay to
facilitate:
(i) further medical treatment; or
(ii) a period of recovery before they can travel.

Decision on an application as an HM
Armed Forces service leaver
AF 7.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that the validity,
suitability and eligibility requirements for settlement as
an HM Armed Forces service leaver are met, the
applicant will be granted settlement.
AF 7.2. If the decision maker is satisfied that the validity,
suitability, and eligibility requirements for permission to
stay, but not settlement, as an Armed Forces service
leaver, are met, the applicant will be granted permission
to stay.
AF 7.3. If the decision maker is not satisfied that the

applicant meets the suitability and eligibility
requirements for settlement or permission to stay the
application will be refused.
AF 7.4. If the application is refused the applicant can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix
Administrative Review.

Period and conditions of grant for an HM
Armed Forces service leaver
AF 8.1. Where the decision is to grant permission to
stay, the applicant will be granted permission to stay for
a period not exceeding 30 months and will be subject to
such conditions as to work, study and access to public
funds as the decision maker considers appropriate.

Partner or dependent child (“child”) of a
member of HM Armed Forces or an HM
Armed Forces service leaver
Validity requirements for a partner or child of a
member of HM Armed Forces or of an HM Armed
Forces service leaver
AF 9.1. If applying from outside the UK for entry
clearance as a partner or child of a member of HM
Armed Forces or of an HM Armed Forces service
leaver, the applicant must apply online on the gov.uk
website on the specified form “VAF AF”.
AF 9.2. If applying from in the UK for permission to stay
as a partner or child of a member of HM Armed Forces
or of an HM Armed Forces service leaver, the applicant
must apply on the gov.uk website on the specified form:
“Further leave to remain – Armed Forces”.
AF 9.3. An application as a partner or child of a member
of HM Armed Forces or of an HM Armed Forces service
leaver must meet all the following requirements:
(a) any required fee must have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and

(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other document that satisfactorily establishes their
identity and nationality.
AF 9.4. An applicant applying for permission to stay
must be in the UK on the date of application.
AF 9.5. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for a partner or child of a member
of HM Armed Forces or of an HM Armed Forces service
leaver may be rejected as invalid and not considered.
Suitability requirements for a partner or child of a
member of HM Armed Forces or of an HM Armed
Forces service leaver
AF 10.1. The decision maker must be satisfied that the
applicant should not be refused under Part Suitability.
AF 10.2. If the applicant is in the UK on the date of
application, they must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.
Eligibility requirements for a partner or child of a
member of HM Armed Forces or an HM Armed
Forces service leaver.
Entry requirements for a partner or child of a
member of HM Armed Forces or an HM Armed
Forces service leaver
AF 11.1. If applying from outside the UK, the applicant
must apply for and obtain entry clearance as a partner
or child of a member of HM Armed Forces or of an HM
Armed Forces service leaver before they arrive in the
UK.
AF 11.2. An applicant must, if Appendix Tuberculosis
applies, provide a valid medical certificate confirming
that they have undergone screening for active

pulmonary tuberculosis and that this tuberculosis is not
present in them.
Relationship requirements for a partner of a
member of HM Armed Forces or an HM Armed
Forces service leaver
AF 12.1. The applicant must be the partner of a person
where that person:
(a) is a member of HM Armed Forces who is exempt
from immigration control; or
(b) is at the same time applying for (and is being
granted) permission to stay or settlement as a HM
Armed Forces service leaver; or
(c) has permission granted under this Appendix or
the previous Appendix Armed Forces; or
(d) is a British citizen, including one who naturalised
after 5 years reckonable service, who is a member
of HM Armed Forces or is an HM Armed Forces
service leaver; or
(e) is settled providing the person had permission
(or exemption from control) as a member of HM
Armed Forces or as an HM Armed Forces service
leaver before they were granted settlement.
AF 12.2. The requirements of Appendix Relationship
with Partner must be met.
Relationship requirements for a fiancé(e) or
proposed civil partner of a member of HM Armed
Forces or an HM Armed Forces service leaver
AF 13.1. If the application is for entry clearance and the
applicant is a fiancé(e) or proposed civil partner:
(a) the applicant and their fiancé(e) or proposed civil
partner must be aged 18 or over on the date of
application; and
(b) the applicant and their fiancé(e) or proposed civil
partner must have met in person; and
(c) the relationship between the applicant and their
fiancé(e) or proposed civil partner must be genuine;
and

(d) the applicant and their fiancé(e) or proposed civil
partner must not be so closely related that they
would be prohibited from marrying, or entering into a
civil partnership with, each other as defined in the
Marriage Acts 1949 to 1986, the Marriage (Scotland)
Act 1977 and 1986, the Marriage (Northern Ireland)
Order 2003, the Civil Partnership Act 2004 and the
Marriage and Civil Partnership (Scotland) Act 2014;
and
(e) neither the applicant nor their fiancé(e) or
proposed civil partner can be married to, or in a civil
partnership with, another person at the date of
application; and
(f) the applicant must be seeking entry clearance to
enable their marriage or civil partnership to take
place in the UK within 6 months of the date of entry
to the UK.
AF 13.2. If the application is for permission to stay as a
fiancé(e) or proposed civil partner:
(a) the applicant must have been granted entry
clearance as a fiancé(e) or proposed civil partner;
and
(b) the marriage or civil partnership must not have
taken place; and
(c) the decision maker must be satisfied there is a
good reason for the delay; and
(d) the decision maker must be satisfied the
marriage or civil partnership will take place in the UK
within 6 months of the date of application for
permission to stay.
Requirements as a child of a member of HM Armed
Forces or an HM Armed Forces service leaver
AF 14.1. The applicant must meet the following
requirements for a dependent child in Appendix
Children:
(a) age requirement; and
(b) independent life requirement; and
(c) care requirement; and

(d) relationship requirement: entry clearance and
permission to stay.
English language requirement for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a partner or child of a member
of HM Armed Forces or an HM Armed Forces
service leaver
AF 15.1. Unless an exemption applies, the applicant
must show English language ability on the Common
European Framework of Reference for Languages in
speaking and listening of at least level A1.
AF 15.2. The applicant must show they meet the
English language requirement, or are exempt, as set out
in Appendix English Language.
Financial requirements for a partner or child of a
member of HM Armed Forces or an HM Armed
Forces service leaver applying for entry clearance
or permission to stay on or after 11 April 2024
AF 16.1. Unless AF 17.1 applies, the applicant must
provide specified (where “specified” means as specified
in Appendix FM-SE to these Rules) evidence from
sources listed in AF 16.3. that:
(a) where the applicant is a partner, or where the
applicant is a dependent child whose parent is also
applying for or has entry clearance or permission as
a partner of a member of HM Armed Forces or an
HM Armed Forces service leaver, the applicant
meets the financial requirement in AF 16.2; or
(b) where the HM Armed Forces member or HM
Armed Forces service leaver, in relation to whom the
applicant is applying as a partner or dependent
child, is receiving any of the benefits or funds listed
in AF 16.4, the applicant’s partner, or in the case of
an applicant child, the child’s parents can
adequately maintain themselves, the applicant and
any other children in the UK, without recourse to
public funds; or
(c) where the applicant is a child of a member of HM
Armed Forces, or an HM Armed Forces service
leaver parent, who has sole parental responsibility

for them, the parent can adequately maintain
themselves, the applicant and any other children in
the UK without recourse to public funds.
AF 16.2. The financial requirement is:
(a) a gross annual income of at least £23,496, alone
or in combination with
(b) savings of:
(i) £16,000; and
(ii) additional savings of an amount equivalent to
the difference between the gross annual income
at AF 16.2. (a), from the sources listed in AF
16.3. (a) to (d), and the total amount required
under AF.16.2 (a), multiplied by the length in
years of the period of temporary permission to
stay for which the applicant has applied (or by
the part-year equivalent if the applicant has
applied for less than 12 months) from the
sources listed in AF 16.3.
AF 16.3. When determining whether the financial
requirement in AF 16.2. is met only the following
sources will be taken into account:
(a) income of the member of HM Armed Forces or
HM Armed Forces service leaver from employment
or self-employment, which, in respect of a person
returning to the UK with the applicant, can include
employment or self-employment overseas and in the
UK; or
(b) (where the applicant is a dependent child)
income of the applicant’s parent who is also
applying for or has entry clearance or permission as
a dependent partner of a member of HM Armed
Forces or an HM Armed Forces service leaver from
specified employment or self-employment if they are
in the UK unless they are working illegally; or
(c) specified pension income of the applicant and
their partner; or
(d) any specified maternity allowance or
bereavement benefit received by the partner in the
UK or any specified payment relating to service in
HM Armed Forces received by the applicant or their
partner; or

(e) Specified income from the sources at subparagraphs (b) and (d) of a dependent child aged 18
or over, of a member of HM Armed Forces or an HM
Armed Forces service leaver; or
(f) specified savings of the member of HM Armed
Forces or the HM Armed Forces service leaver, their
partner or dependent child aged 18 or over.
AF 16.4. For the purpose of AF 16.1. (b), or AF 17.3.
(b), the member of HM Armed Forces, or the HM Armed
Forces service leaver, must be in receipt of one of the
following:
(a) disability living allowance; or
(b) severe disablement allowance; or
(c) industrial injury disablement benefit; or
(d) attendance allowance; or
(e) carer’s allowance; or
(f) personal independence payment; or
(g) DELETED
(h) Armed Forces Independence Payment or
Guaranteed Income Payment under the Armed
Forces Compensation Scheme; or
(i) Constant Attendance Allowance, Mobility
Supplement or War Disablement Pension under the
War Pensions Scheme; or Police Injury Pension:
(j) Police Injury Pension; or
(k) Child Disability Payment (Scotland); or
(l) Adult Disability Payment (Scotland); or
(m) Carer’s Support Payment (Scotland); or
(n) Pension Age Disability Payment (Scotland); or
(o) Scottish Adult Disability Living Allowance
(Scotland).
AF 16.5. The applicant must show they meet the
financial requirement as specified in Appendix FM-SE.
Pre-11 April 2024 Transitional financial requirements
AF 17.1. An applicant need not meet the requirements

in AF 16.1 and instead must provide specified (where
“specified” means as specified in Appendix FM-SE to
these Rules) evidence from the sources listed in AF
17.5 that they meet the transitional financial requirement
at AF 17.3 if:
(a) (in the case of dependent partner applications)
they have permission as a dependent partner
(including as a fiancé(e) or proposed civil partner) of
a member of HM Armed Forces or HM Armed
Services leaver at the date of application, if they
made an application for entry clearance or
permission as such a partner, before 11 April 2024,
which was successful;
(b) Where the applicant is a dependent child, the
parent of the applicant has applied, or is applying
for, entry clearance or permission as a dependant
partner of a member of HM Armed Forces or and
HM Armed Forces service leaver and they meet the
requirements of (a) above;
(c) the application for entry clearance, permission to
enter or permission to stay, as a dependent partner
or child has been made before 11 April 2024.
AF 17.2. Where the applicant is a partner, AF 17.1(a)
only applies if the applicant is applying for permission to
stay with the same partner as when they were last
granted permission (and if applying for permission with
a new partner, the applicant must meet the financial
requirement at AF 16.2).
AF 17.3. The applicant must provide specified (where
“specified” means as specified in Appendix FM-SE to
these Rules) evidence from sources listed in AF 17.5.
that:
(a) the financial requirement in AF 17.4. is met: or
(b) where the member of HM Armed Forces or HM
Armed Forces service leaver in relation to whom the
applicant is applying as a dependant is receiving
any of the benefits or funds listed in AF 16.4., the
applicant partner, or in the case of an applicant
child, either or both of the child’s parents can
adequately maintain themselves, the applicant and
any children in the UK, without recourse to public
funds; or

(c) where the applicant is a child of a member of HM
Armed Forces, or an HM Armed Forces service
leaver parent, who has sole parental responsibility
for them, the parent can adequately maintain
themselves, the applicant and any other children in
the UK without recourse to public funds.
AF 17.4. The financial requirement is:
(a) a gross annual income of at least:
(i) £18,600; and
(ii) an additional £3,800 for the first child; and
(iii)an additional £2,400 for each additional child;
alone or in combination with
(b) savings of
(i) £16,000; and
(ii) additional savings or an amount equivalent to
the difference between the gross annual income
from the sources listed in AF 17.3.(a) to (d) and
the total amount required under paragraph AF
17.2 multiplied by the length in years of the
period of limited leave for which the applicant
has applied (or by the part-year equivalent if the
applicant has applied for less than 12 months’
limited leave) - between the gross annual
income from the sources listed in paragraph.
AF 17.5. When determining whether the financial
requirement in AF 17.3. or AF 17.4. is met only the
following sources will be taken into account:
(a) income of the member of HM Armed Forces or
HM Armed Forces service leaver from specified
employment or self-employment, which, in respect
of a person returning to the UK with the applicant,
can include specified employment or selfemployment overseas and in the UK; or
(b) the dependant partner applicant’s (or, where the
applicant is a dependent child, income of the
applicant’s parent who is also applying for or has
entry clearance or permission as a dependent
partner of a member of HM Armed Forces or an HM
Armed Forces service leaver) income from specified
employment or self-employment if they are in the UK
unless they are working illegally;

(c) specified pension income of the applicant and
partner; or
(d) any specified maternity allowance or
bereavement benefit received by the partner in the
UK or any specified payment relating to service in
HM Armed Forces received by the applicant or
partner; or
(e) income from the sources at AF 17.6.(b) and (d)
of a dependent child of the applicant or the
applicant’s parent who is aged 18 or over; and
(f) specified savings of the applicant and their
partner; or of the applicant’s parent and that parent’s
partner; or of a dependent child of the applicant or
the applicant’s parent who is aged 18 or over.
AF 17.6. In AF 17.4. “child” means a dependent child of
the applicant or the applicant’s partner who is:
(a) under the age of 18 years, or who was under the
age of 18 years when they were first granted entry
under this route; and
(b) applying for entry clearance or leave to remain
as a dependant of the applicant or the applicant’s
partner, or is in the UK with leave as their
dependant; and
(c) not a British Citizen, settled in the UK, or in the
UK with valid limited leave to enter or remain
granted under EU3 or EU3A of Appendix EU to
these Rules; and
(d) not an EEA national with a right to be admitted to
or reside in the UK under the Immigration (European
Economic Area) Regulations 2016.
AF 17.7. Where the financial requirement at AF 16.4.
exceeds £23,496 due to the number of children in the
family, the applicant will only need to provide evidence
of a gross annual income of £23,496.
Accommodation requirement for a partner or child
of a member of HM Armed Forces or an HM Armed
Forces service leaver
AF 18.1. The applicant’s accommodation in the UK
must not be overcrowded or contravene public health

regulations.
Eligibility requirement for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a partner or child of a member
of HM Armed Forces or an Armed Forces service
leaver relying on Article 8 of the European
Convention on Human Rights.
AF 19.1. Where the applicant does not meet all the
suitability requirements or eligibility requirements for a
partner or child of a member of HM Armed Forces or an
Armed Forces service leaver, the decision maker must
be satisfied that refusal of the application would breach
Article 8 of the Human Rights Convention because it
would result in unjustifiably harsh consequences for the
applicant or their family.
AF 19.2. Where AF 19.1. applies, and the applicant falls
for refusal under SUI 2.1., SUI 2.3., SUI 4.1., SUI 5.1.,
of Part Suitability, the application as a partner or child of
a member of HM Armed Forces or an Armed Forces
Service leaver, will be refused.

Decision on an application as a partner
or child of a member of HM Armed
Forces or an HM Armed Forces service
leaver
AF 20.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that the
validity, suitability and eligibility requirements are met, or
the applicant meets AF 19.1. (unless AF 19.2. applies),
the application will be granted, otherwise the application
will be refused.

Period and conditions of grant for entry
clearance or permission to stay for
partner or child of a member of HM
Armed Forces or an HM Armed Forces
service leaver
AF 21.1. Entry clearance or permission to stay as a
partner will be granted for whichever is shorter of:

(a) 5 years; or
(b) the remaining duration of the applicant’s
partner’s enlistment; or
(c) the remaining duration of the applicant’s
partner’s extant permission; or
(d) 6 months if the applicant is being granted entry
clearance or permission to stay as a fiancé(e) or
proposed civil partner.
AF 21.2. Entry clearance or permission to stay as a
dependent child will be granted to end on the same date
as whichever of their parents’ permission ends first,
unless one parent is a British citizen or a person who
has a right to enter or stay in the UK without restriction
and is, or will be, ordinarily resident in the UK, in such
case, the applicant will be granted permission to stay
which ends on the same date as the parent who is
granted as the partner of a member of HM Armed
Forces or an HM Armed Forces service leaver.
AF 21.3. The grant will be subject to the following
conditions:
(a) no access to public funds; and
(b) work permitted (including self-employment and
voluntary work) (unless granted as a fiancé(e) or
proposed civil partner where no work is permitted);
and
(c) study permitted, subject to the ATAS condition in
Appendix ATAS (unless granted as a fiancé(e) or
proposed civil partner where no study is permitted).

Settlement as a partner or child of a
member of HM Armed Forces or an HM
Armed Forces Service leaver
Validity requirements for settlement as a partner or
child of a member of HM Armed Forces or an HM
Armed Forces service leaver
AF 22.1. If applying from outside the UK, a partner or
child of a member of HM Armed Forces or an HM
Armed Forces service leaver must apply online on the
gov.uk website on the specified form: “VAF: AF”.

AF 22.2. If applying from in the UK, a partner or child of
a member of HM Armed Forces or an HM Armed
Forces service leaver must apply for settlement on the
gov.uk website on the specified form: “SET: Armed
Forces”.
AF 22.3. An application for settlement as a partner or
child of a member of HM Armed Forces or an HM
Armed Forces service leaver must meet all the following
requirements:
(a) any fee must have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other document that satisfactorily establishes their
identity and nationality.
AF 22.4. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for a partner or child of a member
of HM Armed Forces or an HM Armed Forces service
leaver may be rejected as invalid and not considered.
Suitability requirements for settlement as a partner
or child of a member of HM Armed Forces or an HM
Armed Forces service leaver
AF 23.1. The decision maker must be satisfied that the
applicant should not be refused under Part Suitability.
AF 23.2. If the applicant is in the UK on the date of
application, they must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail
Eligibility requirements for settlement as a partner
or child of a member of HM Armed Forces or an HM
Armed Forces service leaver
Entry requirements for settlement as a partner or

child of a member of HM Armed Forces or an HM
Armed Forces service leaver
AF 24.1. If applying from outside the UK as a partner or
child of a member of HM Armed Forces or an HM
Armed Forces service leaver the applicant must apply
for and obtain entry clearance for settlement as a
partner or child of a member of HM Armed Forces or an
HM Armed Forces service leaver before they arrive in
the UK.
AF 24.2. If Appendix Tuberculosis applies, the applicant
must provide a valid medical certificate confirming that
they have undergone screening for active pulmonary
tuberculosis and that this tuberculosis is not present in
them.
Relationship requirements for settlement as a
partner of a member of HM Armed Forces or an HM
Armed Forces service leaver
AF 25.1. The applicant must be the partner of a person
where one of the following apply:
(a) is a member of HM Armed Forces exempt from
immigration control with at least 5 years’ reckonable
service; or
(b) has been granted or, is at the same time
applying for (and is being granted) settlement as a
HM Armed Forces service leaver; or
(c) has permission granted under this Appendix or
the previous Appendix Armed Forces; or
(d) is a British citizen, including one who naturalised
after 5 years reckonable service, who is a member
of HM Armed Forces or is an HM Armed Forces
service leaver; or
(e) is settled providing the person had permission
(or exemption from control) as a member of HM
Armed Forces or as an HM Armed Forces service
leaver before they were granted settlement.
AF 25.2. The requirements of Appendix Relationship
with Partner must be met.

Relationship requirements for settlement as a child
of a member of HM Armed Forces or an HM Armed
Forces service leaver
AF 26.1. The applicant must meet the following
requirements for a dependent child in Appendix
Children:
(a) age requirement; and
(b) independent life requirement; and
(c) care requirement; and
(d) relationship requirement: settlement.
Qualifying period for settlement as partner or child
of a member of HM Armed Forces or an HM Armed
Forces service leaver
AF 27.1. The applicant must have completed a
continuous period of 60 months with permission under
this Appendix, or previous Appendix Armed Forces, as
the partner or child of a member of HM Armed Forces or
an HM Armed Forces service leaver (excluding any
period of entry clearance or permission to stay as a
fiancé(e) or proposed civil partner).
AF 27.2. If the applicant does not meet AF 27.1, the
qualifying period of 60 months can be met by including
periods of time spent with continuous residence on any
other route to settlement, if the applicant:
(a) did not enter the UK illegally; and
(b) has permission as a partner of a member of HM
Armed Forces or an HM Armed Forces service
leaver for at least one year immediately before the
date of application.
AF 27.3. If the applicant is a child, they can have
completed a period of less than 60 months if their
parent meets AF 27.1. and is being granted settlement
under this Appendix at the same time.
Continuous residence requirement for settlement as
partner or child of a member of HM Armed Forces or
an HM Armed Forces service leaver

AF 28.1. The applicant must meet the continuous
residence requirement as set out in Appendix
Continuous Residence for the qualifying period.
English language requirement for settlement for a
partner or child of a member of HM Armed Forces or
an HM Armed Forces service leaver
AF 29.1. Unless an exemption applies, the applicant
must show English language ability on the Common
European Framework of Reference for Languages in
speaking and listening of at least level B1.
AF 29.2. The applicant must show they meet the
English language requirement, or are exempt, as set out
in Appendix English Language.
Knowledge of life in the UK requirements for
settlement as partner or child of a member of HM
Armed Forces or an HM Armed Forces service
leaver
AF 30.1. Unless an exemption applies, the applicant
must meet the Knowledge of Life in the UK requirement
as set out in Appendix KOL UK.
Financial requirements for settlement as a partner
or child of a member of HM Armed Forces or an HM
Armed Forces service leaver
AF 31.1. Unless AF 32.1. applies, the applicant must
provide specified (where “specified” means as specified
in Appendix FM-SE to these Rules) evidence from
sources listed in AF 31.3. that:
(a) where the applicant is a partner, or where the
applicant is a dependent child whose parent is also
applying for or has entry clearance or permission as
a partner of a member of HM Armed Forces or an
HM Armed Forces service leaver, the applicant
meets the financial requirement in AF 31.2.; or
(b) where the HM Armed Forces member or HM
Armed Forces service leaver in relation to whom the
applicant is applying as a partner or dependent child
is receiving any of the benefits or funds listed in AF

31.4., the applicant’s partner, or in the case of an
applicant child, the child’s parents, can adequately
maintain themselves, the applicant and any other
children in the UK, without recourse to public funds;
or
(c) where the applicant is a child of a member of HM
Armed Forces, or an HM Armed Forces service
leaver, parent who has sole parental responsibility
for them, the parent can adequately maintain
themselves, the applicant and any other children in
the UK without recourse to public funds.
AF 31.2. The financial requirement is:
(a) a gross annual income of at least £23,496, alone
or in combination with
(b) savings of
(i) £16,000; and
(ii) additional savings of an amount equivalent to
the amount which is the difference between the
gross annual income at AF 31.2 (a), from the
sources listed in AF 31.3. (a) to (d), and the total
amount required under AF 31.2 (a); or
(c) the requirements in AF 31.4. being met.
AF 31.3. When determining whether the financial
requirement in AF 31.2 is met only the following sources
will be taken into account:
(a) income of the member of HM Armed Forces or
HM Armed Forces service leaver in the UK with
permission to work , which, in respect of a person
returning to the UK with the applicant, can include
employment or self-employment overseas and in the
UK; or
(b) the dependant partner applicant’s (or, where the
applicant is a dependent child, income of the
applicant’s parent who is also applying for or has
entry clearance or permission as a dependent
partner of a member of HM Armed Forces or an HM
Armed Forces service leaver) income from specified
employment or self-employment if they are in the UK
unless they are working illegally; or
(c) pension income of the applicant and their
partner; or

(d) any maternity allowance or bereavement benefit
received by the partner in the UK or any specified
payment relating to service in HM Armed Forces
received by the applicant or their partner; or
(e) income from the sources at sub-paragraphs (b)
and (d) of a dependent child aged 18 or over, of a
member of HM Armed Forces or an HM Armed
Forces service leaver; or
(f) savings of the applicant and partner, or child
where the child is over 18 at the date of application.
AF 31.4. For the purpose of AF 31.2. (c), or AF 32.3 (c),
the member of HM Armed Forces, or the HM Armed
Forces service leaver, must be in receipt of one of the
following:
(a) disability living allowance; or
(b) severe disablement allowance; or
(c) industrial injury disablement benefit; or
(d) attendance allowance; or
(e) carer’s allowance; or
(f) personal independence payment; or
(g) DELETED
(h) Armed Forces Independence Payment or
Guaranteed Income Payment under the Armed
Forces Compensation Scheme; or
(i) Constant Attendance Allowance, Mobility
Supplement or War Disablement Pension under the
War Pensions Scheme; or Police Injury Pension:
(j) Police Injury Pension; or
(k) Child Disability Payment (Scotland); or
(l) Adult Disability Payment (Scotland); or
(m) Carer’s Support Payment (Scotland); or
(n) Pension Age Disability Payment (Scotland); or
(o) Scottish Adult Disability Living Allowance
(Scotland).
AF 31.5. The applicant must show they meet the
financial requirement as specified in Appendix FM-SE.

Transitional financial requirements for a
partner or child of a member of HM
Armed Forces or an HM Armed Forces
service leaver
AF 32.1. An applicant need not meet the requirements
in AF 31.1. and instead must provide specified evidence
from the sources listed in AF 31.3 that they meet the
transitional financial requirement at AF 32.3. if:
(a) (in the case of dependant partner applications)
they have permission as a dependant partner
(including as a fiancé(e) or proposed civil partner) of
a member of HM Armed Forces or HM Armed
Services leaver at the date of application if they
made an application for entry clearance or
permission as such a partner before 11 April 2024,
which was successful (and that application did not
rely on Article 8 of the European Convention on
Human Rights following consideration of AF 19.1);
or
(b) Where the applicant is a dependent child, the
parent of the applicant has applied, or is applying
for, entry clearance or permission as a dependant
partner of a member of HM Armed Forces or an HM
Armed Forces service leaver and meets the
requirements of (a) above; or
(c) the application for settlement has been made
before 11 April 2024.
AF 32.2. Where the applicant is a partner, AF 32.1(a)
only applies if the applicant is applying for settlement
with the same partner as when they were last granted
permission (and if applying for settlement with a new
partner, the applicant must meet the financial
requirement at AF 31.2.).
AF 32.3. The financial requirement is:
(a) a gross annual income of at least:
(i) £18,600;
(ii) an additional £3,800 for the first child; and
(iii)an additional £2,400 for each additional child;
alone or in combination with:

(b) specified savings of:
(i) £16,000; and
(ii) additional savings or an amount equivalent to
the amount which is the difference between the
gross annual income from the sources listed in
AF 30.3.(a) to (d) and the total amount required
under AF 31.3(a).; or
(c) £23,496, where the requirements of AF 32.4. are
met.
AF 32.4. Where the financial requirement at AF 32.3.(a)
exceeds £23,496 due to the number of children in the
family, the applicant will only need to provide evidence
of a gross annual income of £23,496.
AF 32.5. In AF 32.3. “child” means a dependent child of
the applicant or the applicant’s partner who is:
(a) under the age of 18 years, or who was under the
age of 18 years when they were first granted entry
under this route; and
(b) applying for entry clearance or leave to remain
as a dependant of the applicant or the applicant’s
partner, or is in the UK with leave as their
dependant; and
(c) not a British Citizen, settled in the UK, or in the
UK with valid limited leave to enter or remain
granted under EU3 or EU3A of Appendix EU to
these Rules; and
(d) not an EEA national with a right to be admitted to
or reside in the UK under the Immigration (European
Economic Area) Regulations 2016.

Decision on an application for
settlement as a partner or child of a
member of HM Armed Forces or an HM
Armed Forces service leaver
AF 33.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all the
suitability and eligibility requirements for settlement as a
partner or child of a member of HM Armed Forces or an
HM Armed Forces service leaver are met, the applicant
will be granted entry clearance for settlement (where the

applicant is outside the UK) or settlement.
AF 33.2. If the requirements for settlement are not met,
but the decision maker believes the applicant is likely to
meet the requirements for permission to stay as a
partner or child of a member of HM Armed Forces or
HM Armed Forces service leaver under this Appendix,
the application will be varied by the Secretary of State to
an application for permission to stay as a partner or
child of a member of HM Armed Forces or HM Armed
Forces Service leaver. Where this happens no
additional application fee for entry clearance or
permission to stay will be required and the settlement
application fee will not be refunded.
AF 33.3. Where AF 33.2. applies, and the outcome of
the consideration is to grant permission to stay as a
partner, it will be for whichever is shorter of:
(a) 5 years; or
(b) the remaining duration of the applicant’s partners
enlistment; or
(c) the remaining duration of the applicant’s partners
extant permission or
(d) 6 months if the applicant is being granted entry
clearance, permission to enter or stay as a fiancé(e)
or proposed civil partner.
AF 33.4. Where AF 33.2. applies, permission to stay as
a child will be granted to end on the same day as
whichever of their parents’ permission ends first unless
the other parent is a British citizen who has a right to
enter or stay in the UK without restriction and is, or will
be, ordinarily resident in the UK, in which case the
applicant will be granted permission which ends on the
same date as the parent who is granted as the partner
of a member of HM Armed Forces or HM Armed Forces
service leaver.
AF 33.5. The grant under AF 33.2. will be subject to the
following conditions:
(a) no access to public funds; and
(b) work permitted (including self-employment and
voluntary work) (unless granted as a fiancé(e) or
proposed civil partner in which case work is

permitted); and
(c) study permitted, subject to the ATAS condition in
Appendix ATAS (unless granted as a fiancé or
proposed civil partner in which case no study is
allowed).
AF 33.6. If the decision maker is not satisfied that the
applicant meets the requirements for settlement or
permission to stay, the application for settlement will be
refused.

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

© Crown copyright

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Hong Kong British National (Overseas) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix Hong Kong
British National (Overseas)
There are two Hong Kong British National
(Overseas) routes – the BN(O) Status
Holder route and the BN(O) Adult Child
route.
The BN(O) Status Holder route is for a British National
(Overseas) status holder who is ordinarily resident in
Hong Kong, the UK or the Crown Dependencies. A
dependent partner and a dependent child of a British
National (Overseas) status holder can apply under this
route. Other family members with a high degree of
dependency may also apply under this route.
The BN(O) Adult Child route is for the adult child of a
BN(O) status holder or of the partner of a BN(O) status
holder who is aged 18 or over and born on or after 1
July 1979. The dependent partner, dependent child and,
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-hong-kong-british-national-overseas

Page 1 of 49

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Hong Kong British National (Overseas) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

in exceptional circumstances, other family members
with a high degree of dependency of the adult child of
the BN(O) status holder may apply under this route. The
dependent partner and dependent child of the adult
child of a partner of the BN(O) status holder may also
apply, but they must all apply at the same time as the
BN(O) status holder and form part of the same
household as them.
The Hong Kong British National (Overseas) routes allow
work and study in the UK and are routes to settlement.

BN(O) Status Holder route
Validity requirements for Status Holder
route
HK 1.1. A person applying for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a BN(O) Status Holder must apply
online on the gov.uk website on the specified form as
follows:
Applicant

Specified form

Applicants with a
chipped passport who:
• hold a passport
which shows they are
registered as a British
National (Overseas);
or
• hold a passport
issued by the Hong
Kong Special
Administrative Region.

Either:
• Hong Kong British National
(Overseas) Visa using the UK
Immigration: ID Check app
(when available); or
• Hong Kong British National
(Overseas) Visa

Other applicants

Hong Kong British National
(Overseas) Visa

HK 1.2. An application for entry clearance or permission
to stay as a BN(O) Status Holder must meet all the
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-hong-kong-british-national-overseas

Page 2 of 49

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Hong Kong British National (Overseas) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

following requirements:
(a) any fee and Immigration Health Charge must
have been paid, unless the applicant has been
granted a fee waiver; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other travel document which satisfactorily
established their identity and nationality.
HK 1.3. The applicant must be aged 18 years or over on
the date of application.
HK 1.4. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for a BN(O) Status Holder may be
rejected as invalid and not considered.

Suitability requirements for BN(O)
Status Holder
HK 2.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under Part
Suitability.
HK 2.2. If applying for permission to stay the applicant
must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail, except where they have
been placed on immigration bail after making an
asylum claim in the UK.

Eligibility requirements BN(O) Status
Holder

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-hong-kong-british-national-overseas

Page 3 of 49

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Hong Kong British National (Overseas) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

Entry requirements for BN(O) Status
Holder
HK 3.1. A person seeking to come to the UK as a BN(O)
Status Holder must apply for and obtain entry clearance
as a BN(O) Status Holder before they arrive in the UK.
HK 3.2. A person applying for entry clearance as a
BN(O) Status Holder must, if Appendix Tuberculosis
applies, provide a valid medical certificate confirming
that they have undergone screening for active
pulmonary tuberculosis and that this tuberculosis is not
present in them.

BN(O) Status holder requirement
HK 4.1. The applicant must be a British National
(Overseas) under the Hong Kong (British Nationality)
Order 1986.

Ordinary residence in Hong Kong
requirement for BN(O) Status Holder
HK 5.1. An applicant applying for entry clearance must
be ordinarily resident in Hong Kong at the date of
application.
HK 5.2. An applicant applying for permission to stay
must be in the UK, and must be ordinarily resident in the
UK, the Bailiwick of Guernsey, Bailiwick of Jersey, the
Isle of Man or Hong Kong on the date of application.

Financial requirement for BN(O) Status
Holder
HK 6.1. If the applicant is applying for permission to stay
and has been living in the UK for 12 months or more on
the date of application, they will meet the financial
requirement unless the applicant’s previous grant of
permission was for 12 months Leave Outside the Rules
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-hong-kong-british-national-overseas

Page 4 of 49

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Hong Kong British National (Overseas) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

following an unsuccessful application for the Hong Kong
British National (Overseas) route.
HK 6.2. If the applicant is applying for entry clearance,
or is applying for permission to stay and has been in the
UK for less than 12 months on the date of application, or
where the applicant’s previous grant of permission was
for 12 months Leave Outside the Rules following an
unsuccessful application for the Hong Kong British
National (Overseas) route, the decision maker must be
satisfied that the applicant can adequately maintain and
accommodate themselves without recourse to public
funds for at least 6 months.
HK 6.3. For the purposes of HK 6.2. accommodation will
not be regarded as adequate if:
(a) it is, or will be, overcrowded; or
(b) it contravenes public health regulations.
HK 6.4. The applicant may rely on credible promises of
future third party support.
HK 6.5. Funds must be shown as specified in Appendix
Finance.

In-country tuberculosis certificate
requirement for BN(O) Status Holder
HK 7.1. If the applicant is applying for permission to stay
and:
(a) their last grant of permission was for 6 months or
less; and
(b) the applicant was present in a country listed in
Appendix Tuberculosis (TB) of these rules for more
than six months immediately prior to their last grant
of permission,
the applicant must provide a valid medical certificate
confirming that they have undergone screening for
active pulmonary tuberculosis and that this tuberculosis
is not present in them.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-hong-kong-british-national-overseas

Page 5 of 49

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Hong Kong British National (Overseas) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

HK 7.2. In HK 7.1. a valid medical certificate is a
certificate from an approved centre issued within the 6
months immediately before the date of application.
HK 7.3. The in-country tuberculosis requirement is met if
the applicant provided a medical certificate described in
HK 7.1. as part of a successful application for entry
clearance in the 12 months before the date of
application.
HK 7.4. The list of approved centres in the UK, updated
from time to time, can be found at
https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/uktuberculosis-test-clinics-for-hong-kong-bno.

Decision on an application as a BN(O)
Status Holder
HK 8.1. If the decision-maker is satisfied that all the
suitability and eligibility requirements for a BN(O) Status
Holder are met, the application will be granted,
otherwise the application will be refused.
HK 8.2. If the application is refused the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.

Period of grant for a BN(O) Status
Holder
HK 9.1. The applicant will be granted permission for
either:
(a) a period of 5 years, where the applicant has
applied for a period of 5 years; or
(b) a period of 30 months (plus, where the applicant
has extant permission on the Hong Kong BN(O)
route, the remaining period of that permission, up to
a maximum of 28 days) where the applicant has
applied for a period of 30 months.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-hong-kong-british-national-overseas

Page 6 of 49

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Hong Kong British National (Overseas) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

Conditions of grant for a BN(O) Status Holder
HK 9.2. The permission will be granted subject to the
following conditions:
(a) no access to public funds; and
(b) work (including self-employment and voluntary
work) permitted except for employment as a
professional sportsperson (including as a sports
coach); and
(c) study is permitted, subject to the ATAS condition
in Appendix ATAS.

Dependants on the BN(O) Status Holder
route
Validity requirements for a dependent
partner or BN(O) Household Child on the
BN(O) Status Holder route
HK 10.1. A person applying for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a dependent partner or BN(O)
Household Child on the BN(O) Status Holder route must
apply online on the gov.uk website on the specified form
as follows:
Applicant

Specified form

Applicants with a
chipped passport who:
- hold a passport
which shows they are
registered as a British
National (Overseas);
or
- hold a passport
issued by the Hong
Kong Special
Administrative Region;
or

Either:
• Hong Kong British National
(Overseas) Visa using the UK
Immigration: ID Check app
(when available); or
• Hong Kong British National
(Overseas) Visa

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-hong-kong-british-national-overseas

Page 7 of 49

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Hong Kong British National (Overseas) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

- are EEA nationals.
Other applicants

Hong Kong British National
(Overseas) Visa

HK 10.2. An application for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a partner or BN(O) Household
Child on the BN(O) Status Holder route must meet all
the following validity requirements:
(a) any fee and Immigration Health Charge must
have been paid, unless the applicant has been
granted a fee waiver; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other travel document which satisfactorily
establishes their identity and nationality; and
(d) when applying as a partner on the BN(O) Status
Holder route, where the applicant does not currently
hold, or did not last hold, permission as a partner on
the BN(O) Status Holder route the applicant must be
applying as a partner of a BN(O) Status Holder who:
(i) has made a valid application for entry
clearance or permission to stay in the UK as a
BN(O) Status Holder that has not been decided;
or
(ii) has entry clearance or permission as a BN(O)
status holder; or
(iii) is both a British citizen and a BN(O) status
holder.
(e) when applying as a BN(O) Household Child on
the BN(O) Status Holder route on the basis of being
a child of a BN(O) Status Holder or of the partner of
a BN(O) Status Holder, the applicant must be
applying as a child of a BN(O) Status Holder or of
the partner of a BN(O) Status Holder who:
(i) has made a valid application for entry
clearance or permission to stay in the UK as a
BN(O) Status Holder or as the partner of a
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-hong-kong-british-national-overseas

Page 8 of 49

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Hong Kong British National (Overseas) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

BN(O) status Holder that has not been decided;
or
(ii) has entry clearance or permission as a BN(O)
Status Holder or as the partner of a BN(O)
Status Holder; or
(iii)is both a British citizen and a BN(O) status
holder; and
(f) when applying as a BN(O) Household Child on
the BN(O) status holder route on the basis of being
a grandchild of a BN(O) Status Holder or of the
partner of a BN(O) Status Holder, the applicant must
apply at the same time as the BN(O) Status Holder.
HK 10.3. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for a partner or BN(O) Household
child on the BN(O) Status Holder route may be rejected
as invalid and not considered.

Suitability requirements for a dependent
partner or BN(O) Household Child on the
Hong Kong BN(O) Status Holder route
HK 11.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
HK 11.2. If applying for permission to stay the applicant
must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail, except where they have
been placed on such bail after making an asylum
claim in the UK.

Eligibility requirements for a partner or
BN(O) Household Child on the BN(O)
Status Holder route
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-hong-kong-british-national-overseas

Page 9 of 49

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Hong Kong British National (Overseas) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

Entry requirements for a partner or
BN(O) Household Child on the BN(O)
Status Holder route
HK 12.1. A person seeking to come to the UK as a
partner or BN(O) Household child on the BN(O) Status
Holder route must apply for and obtain entry clearance
as a partner or BN(O) Household child before they
arrive in the UK.
HK 12.2. A person applying for entry clearance on the
BN(O) Status Holder route must, if Appendix
Tuberculosis applies, provide a valid medical certificate
confirming that they have undergone screening for
active pulmonary tuberculosis and that this tuberculosis
is not present in them.

Relationship requirement for dependent
partner on the BN(O) Status Holder
route
HK 13.1. If the applicant is applying for permission to
stay and they have permission as a dependent partner
on the BN(O) Status Holder route on the date of
application, they will meet the relationship requirement.
HK 13.2. If the applicant is applying for entry clearance
or permission to stay and they have not previously had
permission as a partner on the BN(O) Status Holder
route they must meet the relationship requirement in HK
13.3. to HK 13.4.
HK 13.3. The applicant must be the partner of a person
(P) where one of the following applies:
(a) P has entry clearance or permission on the Hong
Kong BN(O) route; or
(b) P is, at the same time, applying for (and is
granted) entry clearance or permission on the Hong
Kong BN(O) route; or
(c) P has settlement under the Hong Kong BN(O)
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-hong-kong-british-national-overseas

Page 10 of 49

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Hong Kong British National (Overseas) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

Route and when they obtained settlement, the
applicant had permission as P’s partner at that time;
or
(d) P is both a British citizen and a BN(O) Status
Holder.
HK 13.4. The requirements of Appendix Relationship
with Partner must be met.
HK 13.5. DELETED.
HK 13.6. DELETED.
HK 13.7. DELETED.
HK 13.8. DELETED.

Financial requirement for dependent
partner on the BN(O) Status Holder
route
HK 14.1. If the applicant is applying for permission to
stay and has been living in the UK with permission for
12 months or more on the date of application, they will
meet the financial requirement unless the applicant’s
previous grant of permission was for 12 months Leave
Outside the Rules following an unsuccessful application
for the Hong Kong British National (Overseas) route.
HK 14.2. If the applicant is applying for entry clearance
or is applying for permission to stay and has been in the
UK for less than 12 months on the date of application, or
where the applicant’s previous grant of permission was
for 12 months Leave Outside the Rules following an
unsuccessful application for the Hong Kong British
National (Overseas) route, the decision maker must be
satisfied that the applicant or the BN(O) Status Holder
are able to maintain and accommodate the applicant
adequately in the UK without recourse to public funds
for at least 6 months.
HK 14.3. For the purposes of HK 14.2. accommodation
will not be regarded as adequate if:
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-hong-kong-british-national-overseas

Page 11 of 49

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Hong Kong British National (Overseas) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

(a) it is, or will be, overcrowded; or
(b) it contravenes public health regulations.
HK 14.4. The applicant or the BN(O) Status Holder may
rely on credible promises of future third party support.
HK 14.5. The applicant or the BN(O) Status Holder must
show that they have the required funds as specified in
Appendix Finance.

Relationship requirement for BN(O)
Household Child on the BN(O) Status
Holder route
HK 15.1. The applicant must be:
(a) the child of a parent who:
(i) has, or is at the same time being granted,
entry clearance or permission as either a BN(O)
Status Holder or the partner of a BN(O) Status
Holder; or
(ii) has settlement under the Hong Kong BN(O)
route and when they obtained settlement the
applicant had permission as their dependent
child; or
(iii) is both a British citizen and a BN(O) Status
Holder; or
(b) The grandchild of a grandparent who:
(i) has, or is at the same time being granted,
entry clearance or permission as either a BN(O)
Status Holder or the partner of a BN(O) Status
Holder; or
(ii) has settlement under the Hong Kong BN(O)
route and when they obtained settlement the
applicant had permission as their dependent
grandchild; or
(iii) is both a British citizen and a BN(O) Status
Holder.
HK 15.2. If the applicant is applying for entry clearance
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-hong-kong-british-national-overseas

Page 12 of 49

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Hong Kong British National (Overseas) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

or permission to stay as the grandchild of a BN(O)
Status Holder or the partner of a BN(O) Status Holder
and the applicant has not previously had permission as
a BN(O) Household Child on the BN(O) Status Holder
route:
(a) they must form part of the same household as
the BN(O) Status Holder on the date of application;
and
(b) the BN(O) Status Holder must have, or at the
same time be being granted, entry clearance or
permission on the BN(O) Status Holder route.
HK 15.3. In HK 15.2(a) a person will form part of the
same household as the BN(O) Status Holder if they
normally live with the BN(O) Status Holder.
HK 15.4. Each of the applicant’s parents must either be
applying at the same time as the applicant, or have
permission to be in the UK (other than as a Visitor),
unless:
(a) the parent with entry clearance or permission to
stay as a BN(O) Status Holder or as a partner of a
BN(O) Status Holder is the sole surviving parent; or
(b) the parent with entry clearance or permission to
stay as a BN(O) Status Holder or as a partner of a
BN(O) Status Holder has sole responsibility for the
applicant’s upbringing; or
(c) the parent who does not have permission as a
BN(O) Status Holder or as a partner of a BN(O)
Status Holder –
(i) is a British citizen or a person who has a right
to enter or stay in the UK without restriction; and
(ii) is or will be ordinarily resident in the UK; or
(d) there are serious and compelling reasons to
grant the applicant entry clearance or permission to
stay with the parent who has permission on the
Hong Kong BN(O) route; or
(e) the applicant falls within HK 15.1(b) and there
are serious and compelling reasons to grant the
applicant entry clearance or permission to stay with
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-hong-kong-british-national-overseas

Page 13 of 49

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Hong Kong British National (Overseas) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

the grandparent with entry clearance or permission
to stay as a BN(O) Status Holder or as a partner of a
BN(O) Status Holder.
HK 15.5. If the applicant is a child born in the UK to a
BN(O) Status Holder or their partner, the applicant must
provide a full UK birth certificate showing the names of
both parents.

Care requirement for a BN(O) Household
Child on the BN(O) Status Holder route
HK 16.1. The applicant must intend to live with a parent
who has permission on the BN(O) status holder route
during their stay in the UK, unless they can demonstrate
a valid reason why they should not live with that parent.
HK 16.2. The applicant must meet the Care
Requirement for a dependent child in Appendix
Children.

Age requirement for a BN(O) Household
Child on the BN(O) Status Holder route
HK 17.1. The applicant must be under the age of 18 at
the date of application.

Financial requirement for a BN(O)
Household Child on the BN(O) Status
Holder route
HK 18.1. If the applicant is applying for permission to
stay and has been living in the UK with permission for
12 months or more on the date of application, they will
meet the financial requirement.
HK 18.2. If the applicant is applying for entry clearance,
or is applying for permission to stay and has been in the
UK for less than 12 months on the date of application,
the decision maker must be satisfied that the BN(O)
Status Holder or their partner is able to maintain and
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-hong-kong-british-national-overseas

Page 14 of 49

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Hong Kong British National (Overseas) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

accommodate the BN(O) Household Child adequately in
the UK without recourse to public funds for at least 6
months.
HK 18.3. For the purposes of HK 18.2 accommodation
will not be regarded as adequate if
(a) it is or will be overcrowded; or
(b) it contravenes public health regulations.
HK 18.4. The BN(O) Status Holder or their partner may
rely on credible promises of future third party support.
HK 18.5. The BN(O) Status Holder or their partner must
show that they have the required funds as specified in
Appendix Finance.

Ordinary residence in Hong Kong
requirement for dependent partner or
BN(O) Household Child on the BN(O)
Status Holder route
HK 19.1. If the applicant is applying for entry clearance
as a dependent partner or BN(O) Household Child, the
applicant must be ordinarily resident in Hong Kong at
the date of application.
HK 19.2. An applicant applying for permission to stay
must be in the UK and must be ordinarily resident in the
UK, the Bailiwick of Guernsey, Bailiwick of Jersey, the
Isle of Man or Hong Kong on the date of application.

In-country tuberculosis certificate
requirement for a dependent partner or
BN(O) Household Child on the BN(O)
Status Holder route
HK 20.1. If the applicant is applying for permission to
stay and:
(a) their last grant of permission was for 6 months or
less; and
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-hong-kong-british-national-overseas

Page 15 of 49

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Hong Kong British National (Overseas) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

(b) the applicant was present in a country listed in
Appendix Tuberculosis (TB) of these rules for more
than six months immediately prior to their last grant
of permission,
the applicant must provide a valid medical certificate
confirming that they have undergone screening for
active pulmonary tuberculosis and that this tuberculosis
is not present in them.
HK 20.2. In HK 20.1. a valid medical certificate is a
certificate from an approved centre issued within the 6
months immediately before the date of application.
HK 20.3. The in-country tuberculosis requirement is met
if the applicant has provided a medical certificate
described in HK 20.1. as part of a successful application
for entry clearance in the 12 months before the date of
application.
HK 20.4. The list of approved centres in the UK,
updated from time to time, can be found at:
https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/uktuberculosis-test-clinics-for-hong-kong-bno
(https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/uk-tuberculosistest-clinics-for-hong-kong-bno).

Decision on an application as a partner
or BN(O) Household Child on the BN(O)
Status Holder Route
HK 21.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all the
suitability and eligibility requirements for a dependent
partner or dependent BN(O) Household Child on the
BN(O) Status Holder route are met the application will
be granted, otherwise the application will be refused.
HK 21.2. If the application is refused the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-hong-kong-british-national-overseas

Page 16 of 49

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Hong Kong British National (Overseas) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

Period of grant for a dependent partner
or BN(O) Household Child on the BN(O)
Status Holder route
HK 22.1. The partner will be granted permission for
either:
(a) a period of 30 months (plus, where the partner
has extant permission on the Hong Kong BN(O)
route, the remaining period of that permission, up to
a maximum of 28 days) where they have applied for
a period of 30 months; or
(b) 5 years, if they applied for a period of 5 years.
HK 22.2. DELETED.
HK 22.3. DELETED.
HK 22.4. A BN(O) Household Child will be granted
either:
(a) where the BN(O) Household Child is applying as
the dependant of one parent or grandparent with
permission as a BN(O) Status Holder or the partner
of a BN(O) Status Holder, permission that ends on
the same date as that parent or grandparent; or
(b) where the BN(O) Household Child is applying as
the dependant of both parents or grandparents with
permission as a BN(O) Status Holder or the partner
of a BN(O) Status Holder, permission that ends on
the same date as those parents or grandparents or,
if different, the same date as the parent or
grandparent whose permission ends latest.
Conditions of grant for a partner or BN(O)
Household Child on the BN(O) Status Holder route
HK 22.5. The grant will be subject to all the following
conditions:
(a) no access to public funds; and
(b) work (including self-employment and voluntary
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-hong-kong-british-national-overseas

Page 17 of 49

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Hong Kong British National (Overseas) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

work) permitted except for employment as a
professional sportsperson (including as a sports
coach); and
(c) study is permitted, subject to the ATAS condition
in Appendix ATAS.
(d) DELETED.

BN(O) Adult Child route
Validity requirements for the BN(O)
Adult Child route
HK 23.1. A person applying for entry clearance or
permission to stay on the BN(O) Adult Child route must
apply online on the gov.uk website on the specified form
as follows:
Applicant

Specified form

Applicants with a
chipped passport who:
- hold a passport
which shows they are
registered as a British
National (Overseas);
or
- hold a passport
issued by the Hong
Kong Special
Administrative Region;
or
- are EEA nationals.

Either:
• Hong Kong British National
(Overseas) Visa using the UK
Immigration: ID Check app
(when available); or
• Hong Kong British National
(Overseas) Visa

Other applicants

Hong Kong British National
(Overseas) Visa

HK 23.2. An application for entry clearance or
permission to stay on the BN(O) Adult Child route must
meet all the following requirements:
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-hong-kong-british-national-overseas

Page 18 of 49

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Hong Kong British National (Overseas) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

(a) any fee and Immigration Health Charge must
have been paid, unless the applicant has been
granted a fee waiver; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other travel document which satisfactorily
establishes their identity and nationality; and
(d) when applying for the first time as a BN(O) Adult
Child, if the applicant is applying as a child of the
partner of a BN(O) Status Holder and does not have,
or did not last hold, permission as a Household Child
on the BN(O) Status Holder route, the applicant
must apply for entry clearance or permission to stay
in the UK at the same time as the BN(O) Status
Holder.
HK 23.3. The applicant must have been born on or after
1 July 1979.
HK 23.4. The applicant must be aged 18 or over on the
date of application.
HK 23.5. The applicant must not have or have last had
permission as a BN(O) Adult Dependent Relative on the
BN(O) Status Holder route.
HK 23.6. An application which does not meet the validity
requirements for the BN(O) Adult Child route may be
rejected as invalid and not considered.

Suitability requirements for the BN(O)
Adult Child route
HK 24.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
HK 24.2. If applying for permission to stay the applicant
must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-hong-kong-british-national-overseas

Page 19 of 49

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Hong Kong British National (Overseas) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail, except where they have
been placed on such bail after making an asylum
claim in the UK.

Eligibility requirements for the BN(O)
Adult Child route
Entry requirement for a BN(O) Adult
Child
HK 25.1. A person seeking to come to the UK on the
BN(O) Adult Child route must apply for and obtain entry
clearance on the BN(O) Adult Child route before they
arrive in the UK.
HK 25.2. A person applying for entry clearance as a
BN(O) Adult Child must, if Appendix Tuberculosis
applies, provide a valid medical certificate confirming
that they have undergone screening for active
pulmonary tuberculosis and that this tuberculosis is not
present in them.

Relationship requirement for a BN(O)
Adult Child
HK 26.1. If the applicant is applying for permission to
stay and they have permission on the Hong Kong British
National (Overseas) route on the date of application,
they will meet the relationship requirement.
HK 26.2. If the applicant is applying for entry clearance
or permission to stay and they do not have permission
on the Hong Kong British National (Overseas) route on
the date of application, the applicant:
(a) must be the child of a person who is, or who was
prior to their death, a British National (Overseas)
under the Hong Kong (British Nationality) Order
1986; or
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-hong-kong-british-national-overseas

Page 20 of 49

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Hong Kong British National (Overseas) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

(b) must be the child of a partner of a BN(O) Status
Holder:
(i) who forms part of the same household as the
BN(O) Status holder; and
(ii) the BN(O) Status Holder must have, or at the
same time be being granted, entry clearance or
permission on the BN(O) Status Holder route.
HK 26.3. In HK 26.2. a person will form part of the same
household as the BN(O) Status Holder if they normally
live with the BN(O) Status Holder.

Financial requirement for a BN(O) Adult
Child
HK 27.1. If the applicant is applying for permission to
stay and has been living in the UK with permission for
12 months or more on the date of application, they will
meet the financial requirement unless the applicant’s
previous grant of permission was for 12 months Leave
Outside the Rules following an unsuccessful application
for the Hong Kong British National (Overseas) route.
HK 27.2. If the applicant is applying for entry clearance,
or is applying for permission to stay and they have been
in the UK for less than 12 months on the date of
application, or where the applicant’s previous grant of
permission was for 12 months Leave Outside the Rules
following an unsuccessful application for the Hong Kong
British National (Overseas) route, the decision maker
must be satisfied that the applicant, or a person who
has or is being granted permission on the BN(O) Status
Holder route, is able to, and will, maintain and
accommodate the applicant adequately in the UK
without recourse to public funds for at least 6 months.
HK 27.3. For the purposes of HK 27.2 accommodation
will not be regarded as adequate if:
(a) it is or will be overcrowded; or
(b) it contravenes public health regulations.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-hong-kong-british-national-overseas

Page 21 of 49

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Hong Kong British National (Overseas) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

HK 27.4. The applicant or the person on the BN(O)
Status Holder route may rely on credible promises of
future third party support.
HK 27.5. The applicant or the person on the BN(O)
Status Holder route must show that they have the
required funds as specified in Appendix Finance.

Ordinary residence in Hong Kong
requirement for a BN(O) Adult Child
HK 28.1. An applicant applying for entry clearance as a
BN(O) Adult Child must be ordinarily resident in Hong
Kong on the date of application.
HK 28.2. An applicant applying for permission to stay
must be in the UK and must be ordinarily resident in the
UK, the Bailiwick of Guernsey, Bailiwick of Jersey, the
Isle of Man or Hong Kong.

In-country tuberculosis certificate
requirement for a BN(O) Adult Child
HK 29.1. If the applicant is applying for permission to
stay and:
(a) their last grant of permission was for 6 months or
less; and
(b) the applicant was present in a country listed in
Appendix Tuberculosis of these rules for more than
six months immediately prior to their last grant of
permission,
the applicant must provide a valid medical certificate
confirming that they have undergone screening for
active pulmonary tuberculosis and that this tuberculosis
is not present in them.
HK 29.2. In HK 29.1. a valid medical certificate is a
certificate from an approved centre issued within the 6
months immediately before the date of application.
HK 29.3. The in-country tuberculosis certificate
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-hong-kong-british-national-overseas

Page 22 of 49

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Hong Kong British National (Overseas) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

requirement is met if the applicant has provided a
medical certificate described in HK 29.1. as part of a
successful application for entry clearance in the 12
months before the date of application.
HK 29.4. The list of approved centres in the UK,
updated from time to time, can be found at:
https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/uktuberculosis-test-clinics-for-hong-kong-bno
(https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/uk-tuberculosistest-clinics-for-hong-kong-bno).

Decision on an application as a BN(O)
Adult Child
HK 30.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all the
suitability and eligibility requirements on the BN(O) Adult
Child route are met the application will be granted,
otherwise the application will be refused.
HK 30.2. If the application is refused the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.

Period of grant for a BN(O) Adult Child
HK 31.1. If the applicant is applying as the child of a
BN(O) Status Holder or they already have permission
on the Hong Kong British National (Overseas) route on
the date of application, they will be granted permission
for either:
a) a period of 5 years, where the applicant has
applied for a period of 5 years; or
b) a period of 30 months (plus, where the applicant
has remaining permission under the Hong Kong
BN(O) route, the remaining period of that
permission, up to a maximum of 28 days) where the
applicant has applied for a period of 30 months.
HK 31.2. If the applicant does not have permission on
the Hong Kong British National (Overseas) route on the
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-hong-kong-british-national-overseas

Page 23 of 49

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Hong Kong British National (Overseas) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

date of application and is the child of a partner on the
BN(O) Status Holder route, the applicant will be granted
permission which ends on the same date as the BN(O)
Status Holder.
Conditions of grant for a BN(O) Adult Child
HK 31.3. The grant will be subject to all the following
conditions:
(a) no access to public funds; and
(b) work (including self-employment and voluntary
work) permitted except for employment as a
professional sportsperson, including as a sports
coach; and
(c) study is permitted, subject to the condition in
Appendix ATAS.
(d) DELETED.

Dependants of a BN(O) Adult Child
Validity requirements for a dependent
partner or dependent child of a BN(O)
Adult Child on the Hong Kong BN(O)
route
HK 32.1. A person applying for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a dependent partner or dependent
child on the BN(O) Adult Child route must apply online
on the gov.uk website on the specified form as follows:
Applicant

Specified form

Applicants with a
chipped passport who:
- hold a passport
which shows they are
registered as a British
National (Overseas);

Either:
• Hong Kong British National
(Overseas) Visa using the UK
Immigration: ID Check app
(when available); or
• Hong Kong British National

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-hong-kong-british-national-overseas

Page 24 of 49

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Hong Kong British National (Overseas) - Guidance - GOV.UK

or
- hold a passport
issued by the Hong
Kong Special
Administrative Region;
or
- are EEA nationals.

(Overseas) Visa

Other applicants

Hong Kong British National
(Overseas) Visa

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

HK 32.2. An application for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a partner or child on the BN(O)
Adult Child route must meet the following validity
requirements:
(a) any fee and Immigration Health Charge must
have been paid, unless the applicant has been
granted a fee waiver; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other travel document which satisfactorily
establishes their identity and nationality; and
(d) when applying on the BN(O) Adult Child route as
a partner or child of a person who is the child of a
BN(O) Status Holder and where the applicant does
not currently hold, or did not last hold, permission on
the BN(O) Adult Child route, the applicant must be
applying as a partner or child of a BN(O) Adult Child
who:
(i) has made a valid application for entry
clearance or permission to stay in the UK as a
BN(O) Adult Child that has not been decided; or
(ii) has entry clearance or permission as a BN(O)
Adult Child
(e) when applying on the BN(O) Adult Child route as
a partner or child of a person who is the child of a
partner of a BN(O) Status Holder and where the
applicant does not currently hold, or did not last
hold, permission on the BN(O) Adult Child route, the
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-hong-kong-british-national-overseas

Page 25 of 49

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Hong Kong British National (Overseas) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

applicant must apply at the same time as the BN(O)
Status Holder.
HK 32.3. DELETED
HK 32.4. An application which does not meet the validity
requirements for a dependent partner or dependent
child on the BN(O) Adult Child route may be rejected as
invalid and not considered.

Suitability requirements for a dependent
partner or child on the BN(O) Adult Child
route
HK 33.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
HK 33.2. If applying for permission to stay the applicant
must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail, except where they have
been placed on such bail after making an asylum
claim in the UK.

Eligibility requirements for a dependent
partner or child on the BN(O) Adult Child
route
Entry requirements for a partner or child
on the BN(O) Adult Child route
HK 34.1. A person seeking to come to the UK as a
partner or child on the BN(O) Adult Child route must
apply for and obtain entry clearance as a partner or
child before they arrive in the UK.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-hong-kong-british-national-overseas

Page 26 of 49

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Hong Kong British National (Overseas) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

HK 34.2. A person applying for entry clearance as the
partner or child of a BN(O) Adult Child must, if Appendix
Tuberculosis applies, provide a valid medical certificate
confirming that they have undergone screening for
active pulmonary tuberculosis and that this tuberculosis
is not present in them.

Relationship requirements for
dependent partner of a BN(O) Adult
Child
HK 35.1. If the applicant is applying for permission to
stay and they have permission as a partner on the
BN(O) Adult Child route on the date of application, they
will meet the relationship requirements.
HK 35.2. Where the applicant is applying for entry
clearance or permission to stay and they have not
previously had permission on the BN(O) Adult Child
route they must meet the relationship requirement as
set out in HK 35.3. to HK 35.9.
HK 35.3. The applicant must be the partner of a person
(P) where one of the following applies:
(a) P has permission on the BN(O) Adult Child route;
or
(b) P is, at the same time, applying for (and is
granted) entry clearance or permission on the BN(O)
Adult Child route; or
(c) P is settled or has become a British citizen,
providing P had permission on the BN(O) Adult Child
route when they settled and the applicant had
permission as P’s partner at that time.
HK 35.4. The requirements of Appendix Relationship
with Partner must be met .
HK 35.5. DELETED.
HK 35.6. DELETED.
HK 35.7. Where P is the child of a partner on the BN(O)
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-hong-kong-british-national-overseas

Page 27 of 49

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Hong Kong British National (Overseas) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

Status Holder route:
(a) the applicant must form part of the same
household as the BN(O) Status Holder on the date
of application; and
(b) the BN(O) Status Holder must have, or at the
same time be being granted, entry clearance or
permission on the BN(O) Status Holder route.
HK 35.8. In HK 35.7(a) a person will form part of the
same household as the BN(O) Status Holder if they
normally live with the BN(O) Status Holder.
HK 35.9. DELETED.

Financial requirement for partner of a
BN(O) Adult Child
HK 36.1. If the applicant is applying for permission to
stay and has been living in the UK with permission for
12 months or more on the date of application, they will
meet the financial requirement unless the applicant’s
previous grant of permission was for 12 months Leave
Outside the Rules following an unsuccessful application
for the Hong Kong British National (Overseas) route.
HK 36.2. If the applicant is applying for entry clearance,
or is applying for permission to stay and has been in the
UK for less than 12 months on the date of application, or
where the applicant’s previous grant of permission was
for 12 months Leave Outside the Rules following an
unsuccessful application for the Hong Kong British
National (Overseas) route, the decision maker must be
satisfied that the applicant, the BN(O) Adult Child or a
person being granted permission on the BN(O) Status
Holder route is able to maintain and accommodate the
applicant adequately in the UK without recourse to
public funds for at least 6 months.
HK 36.3 For the purposes of HK 36.2. accommodation
will not be regarded as adequate if
(a) it is or will be overcrowded; or
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-hong-kong-british-national-overseas

Page 28 of 49

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Hong Kong British National (Overseas) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

(b) it contravenes public health regulations.
HK 36.4. The applicant, the BN(O) Adult Child or a
person being granted permission on the BN(O) Status
Holder route may rely on credible promises of future
third party support.
HK 36.5. The applicant, the BN(O) Adult Child or a
person being granted permission on the BN(O) Status
Holder route must show that they have the required
funds as specified in Appendix Finance.

Relationship requirement for dependent
child of a BN(O) Adult Child
HK 37.1. The applicant must be the child of a person (P)
where one of the following applies:
(a) P has permission on the BN(O) Adult Child route;
or
(b) P is, at the same time, applying for (and is
granted) entry clearance or permission on the BN(O)
Adult Child route; or
(c) P is settled or has become a British citizen,
providing P had permission on the BN(O) Adult Child
route when they settled, and the applicant had
permission as P’s child at that time.
HK 37.2. Where neither parent of the applicant is the
child of a BN(O) status holder and the applicant has not
previously been granted entry clearance or permission
as a child on the BN(O) Adult Child route:
(a) the applicant must form part of the same
household as the BN(O) Status Holder on the date
of application; and
(b) the BN(O) Status Holder must have, or at the
same time be being granted, entry clearance or
permission on the BN(O) Status Holder route.
HK 37.3. In HK 37.2(a) a person will form part of the
same household as the BN(O) Status Holder if they
normally live with the BN(O) Status Holder.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-hong-kong-british-national-overseas

Page 29 of 49

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Hong Kong British National (Overseas) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

HK 37.4. If the applicant is a child born in the UK to a
BN(O) Adult Child or their partner, the applicant must
provide a full UK birth certificate showing the names of
both parents.

Care requirement for a dependent child
of a BN(O) Adult Child
HK 38.1. The applicant must intend to live with a parent
who has permission on the BN(O) Adult Child route
during their stay in the UK, unless they can demonstrate
a valid reason why they should not live with that parent.
HK 38.2. The applicant must meet the Care
Requirement for a dependent child in Appendix
Children.

Age requirement for a dependent child
of a BN(O) Adult Child
HK 39.1. The applicant must be under the age of 18 at
the date of application.

Financial requirement for child of a
BN(O) Adult Child
HK 40.1. If the applicant is applying for permission to
stay and has been living in the UK for 12 months or
more on the date of application, they will meet the
financial requirement unless the applicant’s previous
grant of permission was for 12 months Leave Outside
the Rules following an unsuccessful application for the
Hong Kong British National (Overseas) route.
HK 40.2. If the applicant is applying for entry clearance,
or is applying for permission to stay and has been in the
UK with permission for less than 12 months on the date
of application, or where the applicant’s previous grant of
permission was for 12 months Leave Outside the Rules
following an unsuccessful application for the Hong Kong
British National (Overseas) route, the decision maker
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-hong-kong-british-national-overseas

Page 30 of 49

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Hong Kong British National (Overseas) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

must be satisfied that the BN(O) Adult Child, their
partner or a person who is being granted permission on
the BN(O) Status Holder route is able to and will
maintain and accommodate the applicant adequately in
the UK without recourse to public funds for at least six
months.
HK 40.3. For the purposes of HK 40.2. accommodation
will not be regarded as adequate if
(a) it is or will be overcrowded; or
(b) it contravenes public health regulations.
HK 40.4. The BN(O) Adult Child, their partner or a
person with permission on the BN(O) Status Holder
route may rely on credible promises of future third party
support.
HK 40.5. The BN(O) Adult Child, their partner or a
person with permission on the BN(O) Status Holder
route must show that they have the required funds as
specified in Appendix Finance.

Ordinary residence in Hong Kong
requirement for partner or child of a
BN(O) Adult Child
HK 41.1. If the applicant is applying for entry clearance
as a dependent partner or child the applicant must be
ordinarily resident in Hong Kong at the date of
application.
HK 41.2. An applicant applying for permission to stay
must be in the UK and must be ordinarily resident in the
UK, the Bailiwick of Guernsey, Bailiwick of Jersey, the
Isle of Man or Hong Kong on the date of application.

In-country tuberculosis requirement for
partner or child of a BN(O) Adult Child
HK 42.1. If the applicant is applying for permission to
stay and:
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-hong-kong-british-national-overseas

Page 31 of 49

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Hong Kong British National (Overseas) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

(a) their last grant of permission was for 6 months or
less;
(b) the applicant was present in a country listed in
Appendix Tuberculosis of these rules for more than
six months immediately prior to their last grant of
permission,
the applicant must provide a valid medical certificate
confirming that they have undergone screening for
active pulmonary tuberculosis and that this tuberculosis
is not present in them.
HK 42.2. In HK 42.1. a valid medical certificate is a
certificate from an approved centre issued within the 6
months immediately before the date of application.
HK 42.3. The in-country tuberculosis requirement is met
if the applicant provided a medical certificate described
in HK 42.1. as part of a successful application for entry
clearance in the 12 months before the date of
application.
HK 42.4. The list of approved centres in the UK,
updated from time to time, can be found at:
https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/uktuberculosis-test-clinics-for-hong-kong-bno
(https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/uk-tuberculosistest-clinics-for-hong-kong-bno).

Decision on an application as a partner
or child of a BN(O) Adult Child on the
Hong Kong BN(O) route
HK 43.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all the
suitability and eligibility requirements for the dependent
partner or dependent child on the BN(O) Adult Child
route are met the application will be granted, otherwise
the application will be refused.
HK 43.2. If the application is refused the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-hong-kong-british-national-overseas

Page 32 of 49

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Hong Kong British National (Overseas) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

Period of grant for a dependent partner
or child of a BN(O) Adult Child
HK 44.1. The partner will be granted permission for
either:
(a) a period of 30 months (plus, where the partner
has extant permission on the Hong Kong BN(O)
route, the remaining period of that permission, up to
a maximum of 28 days) where they have applied for
a period of 30 months; or
(b) 5 years, if they applied for a period of 5 years.
HK 44.2. DELETED.
HK 44.3. DELETED.
HK 44.4. A child on the BN(O) Adult Child route will be
granted either:
(a) where the child is applying as the dependant of
one parent with permission as a BN(O) Adult Child
or the partner of a BN(O) Adult Child, permission
that ends on the same date as that parent; or
(b) where the child is applying as the dependant of
both parents with permission on the BN(O) Adult
Child route, permission that ends on the same date
as those parents or, if different, the same date as the
parent whose permission ends latest.
Conditions of grant for a partner or child of a BN(O)
Adult Child
HK 44.5. The grant will be subject to all the following
conditions:
(a) no access to public funds; and
(b) work (including self-employment and voluntary
work) permitted except for employment as a
professional sportsperson (including as a sports
coach); and
(c) study is permitted, subject to the ATAS condition
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-hong-kong-british-national-overseas

Page 33 of 49

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Hong Kong British National (Overseas) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

in Appendix ATAS.
(d) DELETED.

Adult Dependent Relative on the Hong
Kong British National (Overseas) route
Validity Requirements for a BN(O) Adult
Dependant Relative
HK 45.1. A person applying for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a BN(O) Adult Dependant Relative
on the Hong Kong British National (Overseas) route
must apply online on the gov.uk website on the specified
form as follows:
Applicant

Specified form

Applicants with a
chipped passport who:
- hold a passport
which shows they are
registered as a British
National (Overseas);
or
- hold a passport
issued by the Hong
Kong Special
Administrative Region;
or
- are EEA nationals.

Either:
• Hong Kong British National
(Overseas) Visa using the UK
Immigration: ID Check app
(when available); or
• Hong Kong British National
(Overseas) Visa

Other applicants

Hong Kong British National
(Overseas) Visa

HK 45.2. An application for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a BN(O) Adult Dependent Relative
on the Hong Kong British National (Overseas) route
must meet all the following validity requirements:
(a) any fee and Immigration Health Charge must
have been paid, unless the applicant has been
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-hong-kong-british-national-overseas

Page 34 of 49

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Hong Kong British National (Overseas) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

granted a fee waiver; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other travel document which satisfactorily
established their identity and nationality.
HK 45.3. The applicant must be aged 18 years or over
on the date of application.
HK 45.4. The applicant must be the parent,
grandparent, brother, sister, son or daughter of a person
who is:
(a) a BN(O) status holder who has entry clearance
or permission to stay under the BN(O) Status Holder
route or who has made a valid application for such
entry clearance or permission to stay; or;
(b) the dependent partner (“DP”) of a BN(O) Status
Holder, where the DP has entry clearance or
permission to stay under the BN(O) Status Holder
route or has made a valid application for such entry
clearance or permission to stay; or
(c) the child of a BN(O) status holder who has entry
clearance or permission to stay under the BN(O)
Adult Child route or who has made a valid
application for such entry clearance or permission to
stay; or
(d) the dependent partner (“DP”) of a child of a
BN(O) status holder, where the DP has entry
clearance or permission under the BN(O) Adult Child
route or has made a valid application for such entry
clearance or permission to stay; or
(e) both a British citizen and a BN(O) status holder.
HK 45.5. An application which does not meet the validity
requirements for a BN(O) Adult Dependent Relative on
the Hong Kong British National (Overseas) route may
be rejected as invalid and not considered.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-hong-kong-british-national-overseas

Page 35 of 49

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Hong Kong British National (Overseas) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

Suitability Requirements for a BN(O)
Adult Dependent Relative
HK 46.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
HK 46.2. If applying for permission to stay the applicant
must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail, except where they have
been placed on such bail after making an asylum
claim in the UK.

Eligibility Requirements for a BN(O)
Adult Dependent Relative
Entry requirements for a BN(O) Adult
Dependent Relative
HK 47.1. A person seeking to come to the UK as a
BN(O) Adult Dependent Relative on the Hong Kong
British National (Overseas) route must apply for and
obtain entry clearance as a BN(O) Adult Dependant
Relative before they arrive in the UK.
HK 47.2. A person applying for entry clearance as a
BN(O) Adult Dependent Relative on the Hong Kong
British National (Overseas) route must, if Appendix
Tuberculosis applies, provide a valid medical certificate
confirming that they have undergone screening for
active pulmonary tuberculosis and that this tuberculosis
is not present in them.

Relationship requirement for a BN(O)
Adult Dependent Relative
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-hong-kong-british-national-overseas

Page 36 of 49

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Hong Kong British National (Overseas) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

HK 48.1. If the applicant is applying for permission to
stay and they have permission as a BN(O) Adult
Dependent Relative on the Hong Kong British National
(Overseas) route on the date of application, they will
meet the relationship requirement.
HK 48.2. Where the applicant is applying for entry
clearance or permission to stay, and they have not
previously had permission on the Hong Kong BN(O)
route, they must be the parent, grandparent, brother,
sister, son, or daughter of a person who is:
(a) a BN(O) status holder who has, or is at the same
time being granted, entry clearance or permission to
stay under the BN(O) Status Holder route; or
(b) the dependent partner (“DP”) of a BN(O) status
holder, where the DP has, or is at the same time
being granted, entry clearance or permission to stay
under the BN(O) Status Holder route; or
(c) the child of a BN(O) status holder who has, or is
at the same time being granted, entry clearance or
permission to stay under the BN(O) Adult Child
route; or
(d) the dependent partner (“DP”) of a child of a
BN(O) status holder, where the DP has, or is at the
same time being granted, entry clearance or
permission under the BN(O) Adult Child route; or
(e) both a British citizen and a BN(O) status holder.
HK 48.3. Where the applicant is the parent or
grandparent of a BN(O) Status Holder or of the partner
of a BN(O) Status Holder or of the child of a BN(O)
status holder under the BN(O) Adult Child route or of the
partner of a child of a BN(O) status holder under the
BN(O) Adult Child route, the applicant must not be in a
subsisting relationship with a partner unless:
(a) that partner is also the parent or grandparent of
the BN(O) Status Holder or of the partner of a BN(O)
Status Holder or of the child of a BN(O) status
holder under the BN(O) Adult Child route or of the
partner of a child of a BN(O) status holder under the
BN(O) Adult Child route; and
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-hong-kong-british-national-overseas

Page 37 of 49

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Hong Kong British National (Overseas) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

(b) that partner is applying for entry clearance or
permission to stay at the same time as the applicant.

Dependency requirement for a BN(O)
Adult Dependent Relative
HK 49.1. If the applicant is applying for permission to
stay and they have permission as a BN(O) Adult
Dependent Relative on the Hong Kong British National
(Overseas) route on the date of application, they will
meet the dependency requirement.
HK 49.2 Where the applicant is applying for entry
clearance or permission to stay, and they have not
previously had permission on the Hong Kong BN(O)
route the applicant must:
(a) as a result of age, illness or disability require
long-term personal care to perform everyday tasks;
and
(b) DELETED
(c) be unable, even with the practical and financial
help of the BN(O) Status Holder or the partner of the
BN(O) Status Holder or the BN(O) Adult Child or the
partner of the BN(O) Adult Child, to obtain the
required level of help in Hong Kong, either because
the help:
(i) is not available, and there is no person in
Hong Kong who can reasonably provide it; or
(ii) is not affordable.
HK 49.3 DELETED.
HK 49.4. Where the applicant and their partner are the
parents or grandparents of the BN(O) Status Holder, or
of the partner of the BN(O) Status Holder, or of the
BN(O) Adult Child, or of the partner of the BN(O) Adult
Child, the applicant, or their partner, must:
(a) as a result of age, illness or disability require
long-term personal care to perform everyday tasks;
and
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-hong-kong-british-national-overseas

Page 38 of 49

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Hong Kong British National (Overseas) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

(b) be unable, even with the practical and financial
help of the BN(O) Status Holder or the partner of the
BN(O) Status Holder or the BN(O) Adult Child or the
partner of the BN(O) Adult Child, to obtain the
required level of help in Hong Kong either because
the help:
(i) is not available and there is no person in Hong
Kong who can reasonably provide it; or
(ii) is not affordable.

Financial requirement for a BN(O) Adult
Dependent Relative
HK 50.1. If the applicant is applying for permission to
stay and has been living in the UK with permission for
12 months or more on the date of application, they will
meet the financial requirement unless the applicant’s
previous grant of permission was for 12 months Leave
Outside the Rules following an unsuccessful application
for the Hong Kong British National (Overseas) route.
HK 50.2. If the BN(O) Adult Dependent Relative is
applying for entry clearance, or is applying for
permission to stay and has been in the UK for less than
12 months on the date of application, or where the
applicant’s previous grant of permission was for 12
months Leave Outside the Rules following an
unsuccessful application for the Hong Kong British
National (Overseas) route, the decision maker must be
satisfied that the BN(O) Status Holder or their partner or
the BN(O) Adult Child or their partner is able to and will
maintain and accommodate the BN(O) Adult Dependent
Relative adequately in the UK without recourse to public
funds for at least 6 months.
HK 50.3 For the purposes of HK 50.2. accommodation
will not be regarded as adequate if:
(a) it is or will be overcrowded; or
(b) it contravenes public health regulations.
HK 50.4. The BN(O) Status Holder or their partner or
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-hong-kong-british-national-overseas

Page 39 of 49

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Hong Kong British National (Overseas) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

the BN(O) Adult Child or their partner may rely on
credible promises of future third party support.
HK 50.5. The BN(O) Status Holder or their partner or
the BN(O) Adult Child or their partner must show that
they have the required funds as specified in Appendix
Finance.

Ordinary residence in Hong Kong
requirement for a BN(O) Adult
Dependent Relative
HK 51.1. If the applicant is applying for entry clearance
as a BN(O) Adult Dependent Relative the applicant
must be ordinarily resident in Hong Kong on the date of
application.
HK 51.2. An applicant applying for permission to stay
must be in the UK and must be ordinarily resident in the
UK, the Bailiwick of Guernsey, Bailiwick of Jersey, the
Isle of Man or Hong Kong on the date of application.

In-country tuberculosis certificate
requirement for a BN(O) Adult
Dependent Relative
HK 52.1. If the applicant is applying for permission to
stay and:
(a) their last grant of permission was for 6 months or
less; and
(b) the applicant was present in a country listed in
Appendix Tuberculosis of these rules for more than
six months immediately prior to their last grant of
permission,
the applicant must provide a valid medical certificate
confirming that they have undergone screening for
active pulmonary tuberculosis and that this tuberculosis
is not present in them.
HK 52.2. In HK 52.1. a valid medical certificate is a
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-hong-kong-british-national-overseas

Page 40 of 49

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Hong Kong British National (Overseas) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

certificate from an approved centre issued within the 6
months immediately before the date of application.
HK 52.3. The in-country tuberculosis requirement is met
where the applicant provided a medical certificate
described in HK 52.1. as part of a successful application
for entry clearance in the 12 months before the date of
application.
HK 52.4. The list of approved centres in the UK,
updated from time to time, can be found at:
https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/uktuberculosis-test-clinics-for-hong-kong-bno
(https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/uk-tuberculosistest-clinics-for-hong-kong-bno).

Decision on an application as a BN(O)
Adult Dependent Relative
HK 53.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all the
suitability and eligibility requirements for a BN(O) Adult
Dependent Relative are met the application will be
granted, otherwise the application will be refused.
HK 53.2. If the application is refused the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.

Period of grant for a BN(O) Adult
Dependent Relative
HK 54.1. The BN(O) Adult Dependent Relative will be
granted permission for either:
(a) a period of 30 months (plus, where the applicant
has extant permission under the Hong Kong BN(O)
Route, the remaining period of that permission, up to
a maximum of 28 days) where they have applied for
a period of 30 months; or
(b) 5 years, if they have applied for a period of 5
years.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-hong-kong-british-national-overseas

Page 41 of 49

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Hong Kong British National (Overseas) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

HK 54.2. DELETED.
Conditions of grant for a BN(O) Adult Dependent
Relative
HK 54.3. The grant will be subject to all the following
conditions:
(a) no access to public funds; and
(b) work (including self-employment and voluntary
work) permitted except for employment as a
professional sportsperson, including as a sports
coach; and
(c) study is permitted, subject to the ATAS condition
in Appendix ATAS.
(d) DELETED.

Settlement on the Hong Kong BN(O)
route
Validity requirements for Settlement on
the Hong Kong BN(O) route
HK 55.1. A person applying for settlement on the Hong
Kong BN(O) route must apply online on the gov.uk
website on the specified form as follows:
Applicant

Specified form

Applicants with a chipped
passport who:
• hold a passport which shows
they are registered as a British
National (Overseas); or
• hold a passport issued by the
Hong Kong Special
Administrative Region.

Either:
• Settlement Hong
Kong British National
(Overseas) using the
UK Immigration: ID
Check app (when
available); or
• Apply to settle in the
UK – certain
categories only,
selecting the Hong

Note: Passports that have
expired and are within five

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-hong-kong-british-national-overseas

Page 42 of 49

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Hong Kong British National (Overseas) - Guidance - GOV.UK

years of their expiration date at
the date of application will be
accepted when using the UK
Immigration: ID Check app.

Kong British National
(Overseas) category

Other applicants

Apply to settle in the
UK – certain
categories only,
selecting the Hong
Kong British National
(Overseas) category.

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

HK 55.2. An application for settlement on the Hong
Kong BN(O) route must meet all the following
requirements:
(a) any fee must have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other travel document which satisfactorily
establishes their identity and nationality;
(d) the applicant must have, or have last had,
permission on the Hong Kong BN(O) route; and
(e) the applicant must be in the UK.
HK 55.3. An application which does not meet the validity
requirements for settlement on the BN(O) route may be
rejected as invalid and not considered.

Suitability requirements for settlement
on the Hong Kong BN(O) route
HK 56.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
HK 56.2 The applicant must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-hong-kong-british-national-overseas

Page 43 of 49

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Hong Kong British National (Overseas) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail, except where they have
been placed on such bail after making an asylum
claim in the UK.

Eligibility Requirements for Settlement
on the Hong Kong BN(O) route
Relationship requirement for settlement
as a dependent child on the Hong Kong
BN(O) route
HK 57.1. Where the applicant is under 18 on the date of
application the additional requirements in HK 57.2. to
HK 57.4. must be met.
HK 57.2. The applicant must have last been granted
permission as a dependent child on the Hong Kong
BN(O) route.
HK 57.3 The applicant’s parent must:
(a) at the same time, be being granted settlement on
the Hong Kong BN(O) route; or
(b) be settled or a British citizen.
HK 57.4. The applicant’s other parent (who is not the
parent in HK 57.3.) must be being granted settlement at
the same time, or be settled or a British citizen, unless:
(a) the parent in HK 57.3. is the applicant’s sole
surviving parent; or
(b) the parent in HK 57.3. has sole responsibility for
the applicant’s upbringing; or
(c) the decision maker is satisfied that there are
serious and compelling reasons to grant the
applicant settlement.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-hong-kong-british-national-overseas

Page 44 of 49

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Hong Kong British National (Overseas) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

Care requirement for settlement as a
dependent child on the Hong Kong
BN(O) route
HK 58.1. The applicant must meet the Care
Requirement for a dependent child in Appendix
Children.

Relationship requirement for settlement
as an adult dependant relative on the
Hong Kong BN(O) route
HK 59.1. Where the applicant has or last had
permission as an adult dependant relative on the Hong
Kong BN(O) route, they must be the parent,
grandparent, brother, sister, son or daughter of a person
who:
(a) last had permission as a BN(O) Status Holder or
the partner of a BN(O) Status Holder or the BN(O)
Adult Child or the partner of the BN(O) Adult Child
and who is at the same time being granted
settlement on the Hong Kong BN(O) route; or
(b) is settled and whose last grant of permission
prior to settlement was as a BN(O) Status Holder or
the partner of a BN(O) Status Holder or the BN(O)
Adult Child or the partner of the BN(O) Adult Child;
or
(c) is a British citizen.

English language requirement for
settlement on the Hong Kong BN(O)
route
HK 60.1. Unless an exemption applies, the applicant
must show English language ability on the Common
European Framework of Reference for Languages in
speaking and listening to at least level B1.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-hong-kong-british-national-overseas

Page 45 of 49

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Hong Kong British National (Overseas) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

HK 60.2. The applicant must show they meet the
English Language requirement as specified in Appendix
English Language.

Knowledge of Life in the UK requirement
for settlement on the Hong Kong BN(O)
route
HK 61.1. If the applicant is aged 18 or over, and under
65 on the date of application, they must meet the
Knowledge of Life in the UK requirement as specified in
Appendix KOL UK.

Qualifying period for settlement on the
BN(O) route
HK 62.1. The applicant must have spent a continuous
period of 5 years with permission in the UK on a route
under which a person can settle, of which the most
recent grant of permission must have been on the Hong
Kong BN(O) route.

Continuous Residence requirement for
settlement on the Hong Kong BN(O)
route
HK 63.1. The applicant must meet the continuous
residence requirement as specified in Appendix
Continuous Residence during the period in HK 62.1.

Decision on an application for
settlement on the Hong Kong BN(O)
route
HK 64.1. If the decision maker is satisfied all the
suitability and eligibility requirements for settlement are
met the applicant will be granted settlement.
HK 64.1A. If the requirements for settlement are not
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-hong-kong-british-national-overseas

Page 46 of 49

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Hong Kong British National (Overseas) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

met, but the decision maker believes the applicant is
likely to meet all the suitability and eligibility
requirements for permission to stay under Appendix
Hong Kong BN(O) (based on the route under which they
have or last had permission), the application will be
varied by the Secretary of State to an application for
permission to stay on that route. Where this happens:
(a) no additional application fee for permission to
stay will be required and the settlement application
fee will not be refunded; and
(b) the Secretary of State will write to the applicant
informing them of this variation and if required will
request the applicant pay any Immigration Health
Charge.
HK 64.1B If the applicant does not pay the requested
Immigration Health Charge, the application for
permission to stay will be rejected as invalid.
HK 64.1C. Where an applicant is granted permission to
stay it will be granted for 30 months and subject to the
following conditions:
(a) no access to public funds; and
(b) work (including self-employment and voluntary
work) permitted except for employment as a
professional sportsperson (including as a sports
coach); and
(c) study is permitted, subject to the ATAS condition
in Appendix ATAS.
(d) DELETED.
HK 64.1D. If the decision maker is not satisfied that the
applicant meets all the suitability and eligibility
requirements for settlement or permission to stay, the
application for settlement will be refused.
HK 64.2. If the application is refused, a request can be
made for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-hong-kong-british-national-overseas

Page 47 of 49

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Hong Kong British National (Overseas) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

Variation of no access to public funds
condition
HK 65.1 A person in the UK with permission on the
Hong Kong BN(O) route may have that permission
varied to remove a no access to public funds condition
where the decision maker is satisfied that:
(a) the applicant is destitute, as defined in section 95
of the Immigration and Asylum Act 1999, or is at risk
of imminent destitution; or
(b) there are reasons relating to the welfare of a
relevant child which outweigh the considerations for
maintaining the condition (treating the best interests
of a relevant child as a primary consideration); or
(c) the applicant is facing exceptional circumstances
affecting their income or expenditure.
HK 65.2. For the purposes of HK 65.1, ‘relevant child’
means a person who:
(i) is under the age of 18 years at the date of
application; and
(ii) it is clear from the information provided by the
applicant, is a child who would be affected by a
decision to impose or maintain the no access to
public funds condition.
HK 65.3. Where an applicant is applying for further
permission on the Hong Kong BN(O) route for 30
months and has previously had their permission varied
to remove a no access to public funds condition under
HK65.1, the decision maker may grant further
permission without such a condition where they are
satisfied that the applicant continues to meet the
requirements set out in HK 65.1.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-hong-kong-british-national-overseas

Page 48 of 49

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Hong Kong British National (Overseas) - Guidance - GOV.UK

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-hong-kong-british-national-overseas

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

© Crown copyright

Page 49 of 49

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Immigration Salary List - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix Immigration
Salary List
Occupations where a reduced skills and
salary threshold applies in the Skilled
Worker route.
An occupation is only included on the list where an
application has been made using a certificate of
sponsorship issued by a sponsor to an applicant before
the removal date stated in the table.
SOC 2020
occupation
code and any
further criteria

Included on
the
Immigration
Salary List
in:
England

Scotland

Wales

Northern
Ireland

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-immigration-salary-list

Page 1 of 9

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Immigration Salary List - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

1212 Managers
and proprietors
in forestry,
fishing and
related services
– only “fishing
boat masters”

-

Yes

-

-

1232
Residential,
day and
domiciliary care
managers and
proprietors – all
jobs

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

2111 Chemical
scientists –
only jobs in the
nuclear
industry

-

Yes

-

-

2112 Biological
scientists – all
jobs

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

2115 Social
and humanities
scientists –
only
archaeologists

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

2142 Graphic
and multimedia
designers – all
jobs

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

3111
Laboratory
technicians –
only jobs
requiring 3 or
more years’

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-immigration-salary-list

Page 2 of 9

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Immigration Salary List - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

related on-thejob experience.
This
experience
must not have
been gained
through
working
illegally.
3212
Pharmaceutical
technicians –
all jobs

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

3411 Artists –
all jobs

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

3414 Dancers
and
choreographers
– only skilled
classical ballet
dancers or
skilled
contemporary
dancers who
meet the
standard
required by
internationally
recognised UK
ballet or
contemporary
dance
companies.

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

The company
must be
endorsed as
being
internationally
recognised by
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-immigration-salary-list

Page 3 of 9

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Immigration Salary List - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

a UK industry
body such as
the Arts
Councils (of
England,
Scotland or
Wales).
3415 Musicians
– only skilled
orchestral
musicians who
are leaders,
principals, subprincipals or
numbered
string positions,
and who meet
the standard
required by
internationally
recognised UK
orchestras.

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

3416 Arts
officers,
producers and
directors – all
jobs

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

5119
Agriculture and
fishing trades
not elsewhere
classified –
only jobs in the
fishing industry

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

The orchestra
must be a full
member of the
Association of
British
Orchestras.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-immigration-salary-list

Page 4 of 9

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Immigration Salary List - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

5213 Welding
trades – only
high integrity
pipe welders,
where the job
requires 3 or
more years’
related on-thejob experience.
This
experience
must not have
been gained
through
working
illegally.

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

5235 Boat and
ship builders
and repairers –
all jobs

-

Yes

-

-

5312
Stonemasons
and related
trades – all jobs

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

5313
Bricklayers – all
jobs

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

5314 Roofers,
roof tilers and
slaters – all
jobs

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

5316
Carpenters and
joiners – all
jobs

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

5319
Construction
and building

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-immigration-salary-list

Page 5 of 9

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Immigration Salary List - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

trades not
elsewhere
classified –
only retrofitters
6129 Animal
care services
occupations not
elsewhere
classified –
only racing
grooms, stallion
handlers, stud
grooms, stud
hands, stud
handlers and
work riders

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

6131 Nursing
auxiliaries and
assistants – all
jobs

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Note: For
Skilled Worker
purposes, SOC
2020
occupation
code 6131 only
applies to roles
in
environments
where
registered
nurse or other
registered
healthcare
professional
roles also exist.
6135 Care
workers and
home carers –
all jobs, except

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-immigration-salary-list

Page 6 of 9

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Immigration Salary List - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

jobs with a
working
location in
England are
only eligible in
this SOC 2020
occupation
code where the
sponsor holds
registration with
the Care
Quality
Commission
and is currently
carrying on a
regulated
activity.
Eligibility for
Skilled Worker
applicants to be
sponsored in
this SOC 2020
occupation
code is
restricted, as
set out in SW
6.1B of
Appendix
Skilled Worker.
Private
households or
individuals
(other than sole
traders
sponsoring
someone to
work for their
business)
cannot sponsor
Skilled Worker
applicants.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-immigration-salary-list

Page 7 of 9

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Immigration Salary List - Guidance - GOV.UK

6136 Senior
care workers –
all jobs, except
jobs with a
working
location in
England are
only eligible in
this SOC 2020
occupation
code where the
sponsor holds
registration with
the Care
Quality
Commission
and is currently
carrying on a
regulated
activity.

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Eligibility for
Skilled Worker
applicants to be
sponsored in
this SOC 2020
occupation
code is
restricted, as
set out in SW
6.1B of
Appendix
Skilled Worker.
9119 Fishing
and other
elementary
agriculture
occupations not
elsewhere
classified –
only deckhands
on large fishing
vessels (9

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-immigration-salary-list

Page 8 of 9

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Immigration Salary List - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:39 am

metres and
above) where
the job requires
the worker to
have at least 3
years’ full-time
experience in
using their
skills. This
experience
must not have
been gained
through
working
illegally.

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-immigration-salary-list

© Crown copyright

Page 9 of 9

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Innovator Founder - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix
Innovator Founder
Appendix Innovator Founder
The Innovator Founder route is for a person seeking to
establish a business in the UK based on an innovative,
viable and scalable business idea they have generated,
or to which they have significantly contributed.
The application must be supported by an endorsing
body.
An applicant must have a key role in the day-to-day
management and development of the business.
A partner and dependent children can apply on this
route.
The Innovator Founder route is a route to settlement.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-innovator-founder

Page 1 of 28

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Innovator Founder - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

Validity requirements for an Innovator
Founder
INNF 1.1. A person applying for entry clearance or
permission to stay as an Innovator Founder must apply
online on the gov.uk website on the specified form as
follows:
Applicant

Specified form

EEA national
with a chipped
passport

Either:
• Innovator using the UK
Immigration: ID Check app (when
available); or
• the forms listed below for
applicants outside or inside the UK
(as relevant)

Applicants
outside the UK

Innovator visa

Applicants inside
the UK

Innovator permission to stay

INNF 1.2. An application for entry clearance or
permission to stay on the Innovator Founder route must
meet all the following validity requirements:
(a) any fee and Immigration Health Charge must
have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other travel document which satisfactorily
establishes their identity and nationality; and
(d) the applicant must have been issued with an
endorsement letter by an endorsing body no more
than 3 months before the date of application and
that endorsement must not have been withdrawn.
INNF 1.3. The applicant must be aged 18 or over on the
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-innovator-founder

Page 2 of 28

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Innovator Founder - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

date of application.
INNF 1.4. If the applicant has in the 12 months before
the date of application received an award from a
government or international scholarship agency
covering both fees and living costs for study in the UK,
they must have provided written consent to the
application from that Government or agency.
INNF 1.5. If applying for permission to stay, the
applicant must be in the UK on the date of application.
INNF 1.5ZA. If applying for permission to stay, the
applicant must not have, or have last been granted,
permission:
(a) as a Visitor; or
(b) as a Short-term Student; or
(c) as a Parent of a Child Student; or
(d) as a Seasonal Worker; or
(e) as a Domestic Worker in a Private Household; or
(f) outside the Immigration Rules.
INNF 1.5A. An applicant who is applying for permission
to stay and has, or last had, permission as a Student,
must fulfil one of the Conditions A or B below on the
date of application:
(a) Condition A: the applicant must have completed
the course of study for which the Confirmation of
Acceptance for Studies was assigned (or a course to
which ST 27.3 of Appendix Student applies); or
(b) Condition B: the applicant must:
(i) be studying a full-time course of study leading
to the award of a PhD with a higher education
provider which has a track record of compliance;
and
(ii) have completed at least 24 months of study
on that course.
INNF 1.6. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for an Innovator Founder may be
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-innovator-founder

Page 3 of 28

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Innovator Founder - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

rejected as invalid and not considered.

Suitability requirements for an Innovator
Founder
INNF 2.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
INNF 2.2. If applying for permission to stay the applicant
must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.

Eligibility requirements for an Innovator
Founder
Entry requirements for an Innovator Founder
INNF 3.1. A person seeking to come to the UK as an
Innovator Founder must apply for and obtain entry
clearance as an Innovator Founder before they arrive in
the UK.
INNF 3.2. A person applying for entry clearance as an
Innovator Founder must, if Appendix Tuberculosis
applies, provide a valid medical certificate confirming
that they have undergone screening for active
pulmonary tuberculosis and that this tuberculosis is not
present in them.
Genuine Innovator Founder requirement
INNF 4.1. The applicant must be a genuine Innovator
Founder applicant.
Points requirement for the Innovator Founder route
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-innovator-founder

Page 4 of 28

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Innovator Founder - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

INNF 5.1. An applicant for entry clearance or permission
to stay must be awarded 70 points from the table below,
of which 50 must either be under the new business
criteria or under the same business criteria, but not
both.
Endorsement

New or
same
business

Requirement

Points

Innovator
Founder

New
Business

Business plan

30

New
Business

Business
venture is
innovative,
viable and
scalable.

20

Innovator
Founder

Same
Business

Applicant’s
previous
permission was
in the Innovator
Founder,
Innovator, Startup or Tier 1
(Graduate
Entrepreneur)
route and they
are pursuing a
business
assessed by a
Home Office
approved
endorsing body
either for the
previous
endorsement or
at a contact
point.

10

Innovator
Founder

Same
Business

Business is
active, trading
and sustainable

20

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-innovator-founder

Page 5 of 28

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Innovator Founder - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

and
demonstrates
significant
achievements
against the
business plan
Innovator
Founder

Same
Business

Applicant is
active in day-today
management
and
development of
business

20

All

Mandatory
for all
applicants

English
Language
requirement at
level B2

10

All

Mandatory
for all
applicants

Financial
requirement

10

Total number
of points
required

70

Innovator Founder application: general
requirements for an endorsement
INNF 6.1. The application must be supported by an
endorsement letter from an Endorsing Body or Legacy
Endorsing Body which must contain the following
information:
(a) the name of the Endorsing Body or Legacy
Endorsing Body; and
(b) their endorsement reference number; and
(c) the date of issue, which must be no earlier than 3
months before the date of application; and
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-innovator-founder

Page 6 of 28

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Innovator Founder - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

(d) the applicant’s name, date of birth, nationality
and passport number; and
(e) the name and contact details (telephone number,
email and workplace address of an individual at the
Endorsing Body or Legacy Endorsing Body who will
verify the contents of the letter to the Home Office if
requested.
INNF 6.2. An endorsement letter from a Legacy
Endorsing Body must meet the requirements set out in
INNF 7.1. and INNF 7.2.
INNF 6.3. An endorsement letter from an Endorsing
Body must confirm that:
(a) the applicant is considered a fit and proper
person to receive endorsement under the rules and
guidance of the Innovator Founder route; and
(b) the endorsing body has no concerns over the
legitimacy of sources of funds or modes of transfer
of funds invested by the applicant into their
endorsed business; and
(c) the endorsing body has identified no reason to
believe that the applicant or their endorsed business
may be the beneficiary of illicit or otherwise
unsatisfactorily explained wealth.
Innovator Founder Legacy Endorsement
requirements
INNF 7.1. A letter of endorsement from a Legacy
Endorsing Body in support of an application under the
new business criteria will only be accepted, and points
will only be awarded, if:
(a) the endorsement letter was issued by the Legacy
Endorsing Body before 13 April 2023 for use in the
Innovator route; or
(b) the applicant previously had permission under
the Start-up route and the Endorsing Body for that
previous permission is the same as the Legacy
Endorsing Body supporting the current application.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-innovator-founder

Page 7 of 28

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Innovator Founder - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

INNF 7.2. A letter of endorsement from a Legacy
Endorsing Body in support of an application under the
same business criteria will only be accepted, and points
will only be awarded, if:
(a) the applicant has or, in the 12 months
immediately prior to the date of application, had
permission as an Innovator Founder or permission
under the Start-up route; and
(b) the Legacy Endorsing Body supporting the
current application is the same as the Endorsing
Body for that previous permission.
Innovator Founder- New Business requirement
INNF 8.1. If the applicant is applying under the new
business criteria the letter of endorsement must confirm
that the applicant meets the requirements in INNF 8.2.
and INNF 8.3.
Business Plan requirement for an Innovator
Founder
INNF 8.2. The applicant must:
(a) have a business plan and have either generated
or made a significant contribution to the ideas in that
business plan; and
(b) demonstrate that they will have a day-to-day role
in carrying out the business plan; and
(c) confirm that they will have at least two Contact
point meetings with the endorsing body at regular
intervals during their period of permission; and
(d) be either the sole founder or an instrumental
member of the founding team.
Innovative, viable and scalable business
requirements for an Innovator Founder
INNF 8.3. The applicant must have an innovative, viable
and scalable business venture and they must meet all
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-innovator-founder

Page 8 of 28

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Innovator Founder - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

the following requirements:
(a) the applicant must have a genuine, original
business plan that meets new or existing market
needs and/or creates a competitive advantage; and
(b) the applicant’s business plan must be realistic
and achievable based on the applicant’s available
resources; and
(c) the applicant must have, or be actively
developing, the necessary skills, knowledge,
experience and market awareness to successfully
run the business; and
(d) there must be evidence of structured planning
and of potential for job creation and growth into
national and international markets.
Innovator Founder - Same Business
INNF 9.1. If the applicant is applying under the same
business criteria:
(a) the applicant must have or have last had
permission as an Innovator Founder or on the Startup or Tier 1 (Graduate Entrepreneur) route; and
(b) the letter of endorsement must confirm that the
applicant meets the requirements of INNF 9.2 to
INNF 10.1.
Innovator Founder - business previously assessed
by an endorsing body requirement
INNF 9.2. The applicant’s business must be a business
that has previously been assessed by an Endorsing
Body or Legacy Endorsing Body while the applicant had
permission as an Innovator Founder or on the Start-up
or Tier 1 (Graduate Entrepreneur) route.
INNF 9.3 The applicant must:
(a) if they have or have last had permission as an
Innovator Founder, demonstrate that they have
attended at least 2 Contact point meetings with their
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-innovator-founder

Page 9 of 28

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Innovator Founder - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

Endorsing Body at regular intervals during their
period of permission or similar regular checkpoint
assessments with their Legacy Endorsing Body; and
(b) confirm that they will have at least two Contact
point meetings with the endorsing body at regular
intervals during their period of permission.
Innovator Founder - business is active, trading and
sustainable requirement
INNF 9.4. The applicant’s business must be active,
trading and sustainable and the applicant must have
made significant progress against their business plan.
INNF 9.5. The applicant’s business must be registered
with Companies House and the applicant must be listed
as a director or member of that business.
Innovator Founder - day to day management
requirement
INNF 10.1. The applicant must be involved in the dayto-day management and development of their business.
English Language requirement for an Innovator
Founder
INNF 11.1. Unless an exemption applies, the applicant
must show English language ability on the Common
European Framework of Reference for Languages in all
4 components (reading, writing, speaking and listening)
of at least level B2.
INNF 11.2. The applicant must show they meet the
English language requirement as specified in Appendix
English Language.
Financial requirement for an Innovator Founder
INNF 12.1. If the applicant is applying for permission to
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-innovator-founder

Page 10 of 28

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Innovator Founder - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

stay and has been in the UK with permission for 12
months or longer on the date of application, they will
meet the financial requirement and do not need to show
funds.
INNF 12.2. An applicant who is applying for entry
clearance, or who is applying for permission to stay and
has been in the UK for less than 12 months at the date
of application, must have funds of at least £1,270.
INNF 12.3. The applicant must show that they have held
the required level of funds for a 28- day period and as
set out in Appendix Finance.
Decision on an application as an Innovator Founder
INNF 13.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all the
suitability and the relevant eligibility requirements for an
Innovator Founder are met, the application will be
granted; otherwise, the application will be refused.
INNF 13.2. If the application is refused the person may
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review
Period of grant for an Innovator Founder
INNF 14.1. The applicant will be granted permission for
a maximum period of 3 years.
Conditions of grant for an Innovator Founder
INNF 14.2. The grant will be subject to the following
conditions:
(a) no access to public funds; and
(b) no work, other than working for the business(es)
the applicant has established or other employment,
where that other employment is in a role that
requires a skill level of not less than RQF Level 3;
and
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-innovator-founder

Page 11 of 28

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Innovator Founder - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

(c) study is permitted, subject to the ATAS condition
in Appendix ATAS.
INNF 14.3. In INNF 14.2.(b), working for the
business(es) does not include any apprenticeship or any
work pursuant to a contract of service, whether express
or implied and whether oral or written, with another
business, (which means successful applicants cannot fill
a position or hire their labour to another business, even
if the work is undertaken through contracting with the
applicant’s own business or through a recruitment or
employment agency).

Settlement by an Innovator Founder
Validity requirements for settlement by an Innovator
Founder
INNF 15.1. A person on the Innovator Founder route
who is applying for settlement must apply online on the
gov.uk website on the specified form ‘Settlement
Innovator’.
INNF 15.2. An application for settlement must meet all
the following requirements:
(a) any fee must have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other travel document which satisfactorily
establishes their identity and nationality; and
(d) the applicant must be in the UK; and
(e) the applicant must have been issued with an
endorsement letter by an Endorsing body or Legacy
Endorsing Body no more than 3 months before the
date of application and that endorsement must not
have been withdrawn.
INNF 15.3. The applicant must have, or have last been
granted, permission as an Innovator Founder.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-innovator-founder

Page 12 of 28

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Innovator Founder - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

INNF 15.4 An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for settlement as an Innovator
Founder may be rejected as invalid and not considered.
Suitability Requirements for settlement by an
Innovator Founder
INNF 16.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
INNF 16.2. The applicant must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.
Endorsement Requirement: Innovator FounderSettlement
INNF 17.1. Where the applicant is applying for
settlement and their previous permission was as an
Innovator Founder, they must provide an endorsement
letter issued by an Endorsing Body, or Legacy
Endorsing Body which includes all of the following
information:
(a) confirmation that the applicant has shown
significant achievements, judged against the
business plan assessed in their previous
endorsement; and
(b) confirmation that the applicant’s business is
registered with Companies House and the applicant
is listed as a director or member of that business;
and
(c) confirmation the business is active and trading;
and
(d) confirmation that the business appears to be
sustainable for at least the following 12 months,
based on its assets and expected income, weighed
against its current and planned expenses; and
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-innovator-founder

Page 13 of 28

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Innovator Founder - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

(e) confirmation the applicant has demonstrated an
active key role in the day-to-day management and
development of the business; and
(f) confirmation the applicant’s business venture has
met at least two of the following requirements:
(i) at least £50,000 has been invested into the
business and actively spent furthering the
business; or
(ii) the number of the business’s customers has
at least doubled within the most recent 3 years
and is currently higher than the mean number of
customers for other UK businesses offering
comparable main products or services; or
(iii) the business has engaged in significant
research and development activity and has
applied for intellectual property protection in the
UK; or
(iv) the business has generated a minimum
annual gross revenue of £1million in the last full
year covered by its accounts; or
(v) the business is generating a minimum annual
gross revenue of £500,000 in the last full year
covered by its accounts, with at least £100,000
from exporting overseas; or
(vi) the business has created the equivalent of at
least 10 full-time jobs for settled workers; or
(vii) the business has created the equivalent of at
least 5 full-time jobs for settled workers, each of
which has a mean salary of at least £25,000 a
year (gross pay, excluding any allowances).
INNF 17.2. An applicant cannot meet the requirements
at INNF 17.1 by relying on the same criterion twice (for
example, an applicant who has invested £100,000 (2 x
£50,000) in their business venture, or who has applied
for intellectual property protection in respect of more
than one innovation, will be considered to have met one
criterion, not two).
INNF 17.3. If the business venture has one or more
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-innovator-founder

Page 14 of 28

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Innovator Founder - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

other team members who are applying for, or have been
granted, settlement as an Innovator Founder, they
cannot share the same means of meeting these criteria
(for example, if two applicants are relying on the
requirement to have created 10 jobs, 20 jobs must have
been created in total).
INNF 17.4. If the applicant is relying on the criteria for
creating jobs in INNF 17.1 (vi) or (vii), the following
requirements must be met:
(a) each job must have existed for at least 12
months and comply with all relevant UK legislation,
including (but not limited to) the National Minimum
Wage Act 1998 and the Working Time Regulations
1998; and
(b) each job must involve an average of at least 30
hours of paid work per week, but two or more part
time jobs held by different employees that when
combined add up to 30 hours per week will
represent the equivalent of a single full-time job, as
long as each of the jobs has existed for at least 12
months; and
(c) a job will be considered one for a settled worker if
the worker met the definition of settled worker in the
rules in force at the time they started the job, and
they remained employed for the whole claimed 12month period, even if they ceased to be a settled
worker at a later date.
INNF 17.5. A letter of endorsement from a Legacy
Endorsing Body will only be accepted if the Legacy
Endorsing Body supporting the current application is the
same as the Endorsing Body that supported the
applicant’s last grant of permission.
Qualifying period requirement for settlement by an
Innovator Founder
INNF 18.1. The applicant must have spent at least 3
years in the UK with permission as an Innovator
Founder.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-innovator-founder

Page 15 of 28

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Innovator Founder - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

Continuous requirement for settlement by an
Innovator Founder
INNF 19.1. The applicant must prove that they have met
the continuous residence requirement as set out in
Appendix Continuous Residence for the qualifying
period in INNF 18.1.
Knowledge of life in the UK requirement for
settlement by an Innovator Founder
INNF 20.1. The applicant must meet the Knowledge of
Life in the UK requirement as set out in Appendix KOL
UK.
Decision on an application for settlement as an
Innovator Founder
INNF 21.1. If the decision maker is satisfied all the
suitability and eligibility requirements are met the
applicant will be granted settlement, otherwise the
application will be refused.
INNF 21.2. If the requirements for settlement are not
met, but the decision maker believes the applicant is
likely to meet all the suitability and eligibility
requirements for permission to stay as an Innovator
Founder, the application will be varied by the Secretary
of State and instead be considered as an application for
permission to stay on the Innovator Founder route.
Where this happens:
(a) no additional application fee for permission to
stay will be required and the settlement application
fee will not be refunded; and
(b) the Secretary of State will write to the applicant
informing them of this variation, and, if required, will
request the applicant pay the Immigration Health
Charge, and if the applicant does not pay the
requested Immigration Health Charge, the
application for permission to stay will be rejected as
invalid.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-innovator-founder

Page 16 of 28

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Innovator Founder - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

INNF 21.4. Where an applicant is granted permission to
stay, they will be granted for the period in INNF 14.1.
subject to the conditions at INNF 14.2.
INNF 21.5. If the decision maker is not satisfied that the
applicant meets all the suitability and eligibility
requirements for settlement or permission to stay, the
application for settlement will be refused.
INNF 21.6. If the application is refused the person may
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.

Dependants of an Innovator Founder
Validity requirements for a partner or dependent
child (“child”) on the Innovator Founder route
INNF 22.1. An application as a partner or child on the
Innovator Founder route must be made online on the
gov.uk website on the specified form as follows:
Applicant

Specified form

EEA
national
with a
chipped
passport

Either (as applicable):
• Dependent partner or dependent child
using the UK Immigration: ID Check app;
or
• the forms listed below for dependent
applicants outside or inside the UK as
relevant.

Applicants
outside
the UK

Dependent partner visa
Dependent child visa

Applicants
inside the
UK

If the dependant is applying at the same
time as the Innovator, they can be included
in the form “Start-Up or Innovator
permission to stay” where the form allows
dependants to be added.
Otherwise:
- Dependent partner

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-innovator-founder

Page 17 of 28

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Innovator Founder - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

- Dependent child
INNF 22.2. An application for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a partner or child on the Innovator
Founder route must meet all the following requirements:
(a) any fee and Immigration Health Charge must
have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other travel document which satisfactorily
establishes their identity and nationality; and
(d) the applicant must be applying as partner or child
of a person (P) who:
(i) has made a valid application for entry
clearance or permission to stay on the Innovator
Founder route that has not been decided; or
(ii) has entry clearance or permission to stay on
the Innovator Founder route; or
(iii) is settled or has become a British citizen,
providing that P had permission on the Innovator
Founder route when they settled and the
applicant either had permission as their partner
or child at that time, or the applicant is applying
as a child of P and the applicant was born in the
UK before P settled.
INNF 22.3. A person applying as a partner must be
aged 18 or over on the date of application.
INNF 22.4. If applying for permission to stay, the
applicant must be in the UK on the date of application.
INNF 22.4ZA. If applying for permission to stay, the
applicant must not have, or have last been granted,
permission:
(a) as a Visitor; or
(b) as a Short-term Student; or
(c) as a Parent of a Child Student; or
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-innovator-founder

Page 18 of 28

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Innovator Founder - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

(d) as a Seasonal Worker; or
(e) as a Domestic Worker in a Private Household; or
(f) outside the Immigration Rules.
INNF 22.4A. An applicant who is applying for permission
to stay and has, or last had, permission as a Student,
must fulfil one of the Conditions A or B below on the
date of application:
(a) Condition A: the applicant must have completed
the course of study for which the Confirmation of
Acceptance for Studies was assigned (or a course to
which ST 27.3 of Appendix Student applies); or
(b) Condition B: the applicant must:
(i) be studying a full-time course of study leading
to the award of a PhD with a higher education
provider which has a track record of compliance;
and
(ii) have completed at least 24 months of study
on that course.
INNF 22.5. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements as a partner or child of an
Innovator Founder may be rejected as invalid and not
considered.
Suitability requirements for partner and child on the
Innovator Founder route
INNF 23.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
INNF 23.2. If applying for permission to stay the
applicant must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-innovator-founder

Page 19 of 28

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Innovator Founder - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

Eligibility requirements for a partner and child on
the Innovator Founder route
INNF 24.1. A person seeking to come to the UK as a
partner or child must apply for and obtain entry
clearance as a partner or child of an Innovator Founder
before they arrive in the UK.
INNF 24.2. A person applying for entry clearance as the
partner or child of an Innovator Founder must, if
Appendix Tuberculosis applies, provide a valid medical
certificate confirming that they have undergone
screening for active pulmonary tuberculosis and that this
tuberculosis is not present in them.
Relationship requirements for a partner of an
Innovator Founder
INNF 25.1. The applicant must be the partner of a
person (P) and one of the following must apply:
(a) P has permission as an Innovator Founder; or
(b) P is, at the same time, applying for (and is
granted) permission as an Innovator Founder.
INNF 25.2. The requirements of Appendix Relationship
with Partner must be met.
Relationship requirement for a child on the
Innovator Founder route
INNF 26.1. DELETED.
INNF 26.2. DELETED.
Age requirement for a child on the Innovator
Founder route
INNF 27.1. DELETED.
INNF 27.2. DELETED.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-innovator-founder

Page 20 of 28

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Innovator Founder - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

Care requirement for a child on the Innovator
Founder route
INNF 28.1. DELETED.
Requirements for a dependent child on the
Innovator Founder route
INNF 28A.1. The applicant must meet the following
requirements for a dependent child in Appendix
Children:
(a) relationship requirement: entry clearance and
permission to stay; and
(b) care requirement; and
(c) age and independent life requirement.
Financial requirement for a partner or child on the
Innovator Founder route
INNF 29.1. If the applicant is applying for permission to
stay and has been living in the UK with permission for
12 months or longer on the date of application, they will
meet the financial requirement and do not need to show
funds.
INNF 29.2. If the applicant is applying for entry
clearance or has been in the UK for less than 12 months
on the date of application, funds of at least the amount
required in INNF 29.3 must be held collectively by one
or more of the following:
(a) the applicant; and
(b) the Innovator Founder (P); and
(c) if the applicant is applying as a dependent child,
their parent who is lawfully present in the UK or
being granted entry clearance, or permission to stay,
at the same time as the partner of an Innovator
Founder.
INNF 29.3. The funds required are:
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-innovator-founder

Page 21 of 28

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Innovator Founder - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

(a) £285 for a dependent partner in the UK, or
applying for entry clearance; and
(b) £315 for the first dependent child in the UK, or
applying for entry clearance; and
(c) £200 for any other dependent child in the UK, or
applying for entry clearance.
INNF 29.4. The funds held must be in addition to any
funds required by the Innovator Founder to meet the
financial requirement for any other dependants in the
UK or applying at the same time.
INNF 29.5. If INNF 29.3. applies, the required level of
funds must have been held for a 28-day period and as
specified in Appendix Finance.
Decision on an application as a partner or child on
the Innovator Founder route
INNF 30.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all the
suitability and eligibility requirements are met for a
partner or child on the Innovator Founder route the
application will be granted, otherwise the application will
be refused.
INNF 30.2. If the application is refused the person may
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.
Period of grant for a partner and child on the
Innovator Founder route
INNF 31.1. A partner will be granted permission which
either:
(a) ends on the same date as their partner’s
permission as an Innovator Founder; or
(b) lasts for 3 years if the partner was (or is being)
granted settlement as an Innovator Founder.
INNF 31.2. A child will be granted permission which
ends on the same date as whichever of their parents’
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-innovator-founder

Page 22 of 28

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Innovator Founder - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

permission ends first unless both parents have (or are
being granted) settlement or British Citizenship, in which
case the child will be granted permission for 3 years.
Conditions of grant for a partner and child on the
Innovator Founder route
INNF 31.3 The grant will be subject to all the following
conditions:
(a) no access to public funds; and
(b) work (including self-employment and voluntary
work) permitted; except for employment as a
professional sportsperson (including as a sports
coach); and
(c) study is permitted, subject to the ATAS condition
in Appendix ATAS.

Settlement for partner and child on the
Innovator Founder route
Validity requirements for settlement for partner and
child on the Innovator Founder route
INNF 32.1. A partner and child on the Innovator Founder
route who is applying for settlement must apply online
on the GOV.UK website on the specified form as
follows:
(a) “Partner - Settlement as a partner or parent
(b) Child – Settlement as a Child (including a child
aged over 18 already in the UK as a dependant)”
INNF 32.2. An application for settlement must meet all
the following requirements:
(a) any fee must have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided either a
passport or other travel document which
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-innovator-founder

Page 23 of 28

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Innovator Founder - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

satisfactorily establishes their identity and
nationality; and
(d) the applicant must be in the UK; and
(e) the applicant must be applying as a partner or
child of a person (P) who:
(i) has made a valid application for settlement in
the UK as an Innovator Founder and that
application has not been decided; or
(ii) is settled or has become a British citizen,
providing they had permission as an Innovator
Founder when they settled and the applicant
either had permission as their partner or child at
that time or is applying as a child of P and was
born in the UK before P settled.
INNF 32.3. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for settlement as a partner or child
of an Innovator Founder may be rejected as invalid and
not considered.
Suitability Requirements for settlement by a partner
and child on the Innovator Founder route
INNF 33.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
INNF 33.2. The applicant must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.

Eligibility requirements for settlement by
a partner and child on the Innovator
Founder route
Relationship requirement for settlement for a
partner or dependent child on the Innovator
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-innovator-founder

Page 24 of 28

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Innovator Founder - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

Founder route
INNF 34.1. The applicant must be the partner or child of
a person (P) where one of the following applies:
(a) P is, at the same time, being granted settlement
as an Innovator Founder; or
(b) P is settled or has become a British citizen,
providing P had permission as an Innovator Founder
when they settled and the applicant either:
(i) had permission as P’s partner or child at that
time; or
(ii) is applying as a child of P and was born in the
UK before P settled.
INNF 34.2. The applicant must either:
(a) have last been granted permission as a partner
or dependent child of the person (P) in INN 34.1; or
(b) have been born in the UK and be applying as a
child of the person (P) in INNF 34.1.
INNF 34.3. If applying as a child, the applicant must
meet the relationship requirement for settlement in
Appendix Children.
INNF 34.4. If applying as a partner, the requirements of
Appendix Relationship with Partner must be met.
Age requirement for settlement as a child on the
Innovator Founder route
INNF 35.1. DELETED.
INNF 35.2. DELETED.
Care requirement for settlement as a child on the
Innovator Founder route
INNF 36.1. DELETED.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-innovator-founder

Page 25 of 28

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Innovator Founder - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

Requirements for settlement as a dependent child
on the Innovator Founder route
INNF 36A.1. The applicant must meet the following
requirements for a dependent child in Appendix
Children:
(a) care requirement; and
(b) age and independent life requirement.
Qualifying period requirement for settlement as a
partner on the Innovator Founder route
INNF 37.1. The applicant must have spent a continuous
period of 5 years in the UK with permission as a partner
of the person (P) in INNF 34.1.
Continuous residence requirement for settlement as
a partner of on the Innovator Founder route
INNF 38.1. The applicant must meet the continuous
residence requirement as set out in Appendix
Continuous Residence during the period in INNF 37.1.
English language requirement for a partner or child
on the Innovator Founder route
INNF 39.1. Unless an exemption applies, the applicant
must:
(a) Where the date of application is before 26 March
2027, the applicant must, unless an exemption
applies, show English language ability on the
Common European Framework of Reference for
Languages in speaking and listening to at least level
B1; or
(b) Where the date of application is on or after 26
March 2027, the applicant must, unless an
exemption applies, show English language ability on
the Common European Framework of Reference for
Languages in speaking and listening to at least level
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-innovator-founder

Page 26 of 28

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Innovator Founder - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

B2.
INNF 39.2. The applicant must show they meet the
English language requirement as specified in Appendix
English Language.
Knowledge of life in the UK requirement for
settlement as a partner or child on the Innovator
Founder route
INNF 40.1. Unless an exemption applies, the applicant
must meet the Knowledge of Life in the UK requirement
as set out in Appendix KOL UK.
Decision on an application for settlement as a
dependent partner or dependent child on the
Innovator Founder route
INNF 41.1. If the decision maker is satisfied all the
suitability and eligibility requirements for settlement as a
partner or child of an Innovator Founder are met the
applicant will be granted settlement.
INNF 41.2. If the requirements for settlement are not
met, but the decision maker believes the applicant is
likely to meet all the suitability and eligibility
requirements for permission to stay as a partner or child
on the Innovator Founder route, the application will be
varied by the Secretary of State to an application for
permission to stay. Where this happens:
(a) no additional application fee for permission to
stay will be required and the settlement application
fee will not be refunded; and
(b) the Secretary of State will write to the applicant
informing them of this variation and if required will
request the applicant pay any Immigration Health
Charge but if the applicant does not pay the
requested Immigration Health Charge, the
application for permission to stay will be rejected as
invalid.
INNF 41.3. Where an applicant is granted permission to
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-innovator-founder

Page 27 of 28

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Innovator Founder - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

stay, they will be granted for the period in INNF 31.1 (as
a partner) or INNF 31.2. (as a child) subject to the
conditions at INNF 31.3.
INNF 41.4. If the decision maker is not satisfied that the
applicant meets all the suitability and eligibility
requirements for settlement or permission to stay, the
application for settlement will be refused.
INNF 41.5. If the application is not varied under INNF
41.2. and the application for settlement is refused the
applicant may apply for an Administrative Review under
Appendix AR: Administrative Review.

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-innovator-founder

© Crown copyright

Page 28 of 28

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix International
Armed Forces and International
Civilian Employees
This route is for members of International
Armed Forces and for International Civilian
Employees of either a North Atlantic Treaty
Organisation (NATO) force or the Australian
Department of Defence.
A partner or child of a member of an International
Armed Force or International Civilian Employees of
either a North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO) or
the Australian Department of Defence can also apply on
this route.
This route is also for a partner or child of a member of
an International Armed Force who is exempt from
immigration control:
• under the 1971 Immigration Act; or
• under the Visiting Forces Act 1952,

where the partner or child is applying for entry clearance
or permission to stay and is listed as a dependant on
the sponsor’s military movement orders or equivalent
civilian posting letter.
An application can be made inside the UK or overseas.
The International Armed Forces and International
Civilian Employees route is not a route to settlement.
Those serving in International Reserve Forces or in a
civilian capacity with a reserve force, cannot apply on
this route.

Members of International Armed Forces
and International Civilian Employees
Validity requirements for members of International
Armed Forces and International Civilian Employees
AFI 1.1. A person applying for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a member of International Armed
Forces or an International Civilian Employee must apply
on the gov.uk website on the specified forms as follows:
(a) for applicants outside the UK, form “Armed
Forces” on the “Find and apply for other visas from
outside the UK” form; or
(b) for applicants in the UK, form “Further leave to
remain – Immigration Rules - Armed Forces
AFI 1.2. An application must meet all the following
requirements:
(a) any fee and the Immigration Health Charge must
have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other travel document which satisfactorily
establishes their identity and nationality; and
(d) the applicant must be aged 18 or over on the
date of application.
AFI 1.3. An application which does not meet all the

validity requirements for the International Armed Forces
and International Civilian Employees route may be
rejected as invalid and not considered unless AFI 3.3.
applies .
Suitability requirements for members of
International Armed Forces and International
Civilian Employees
AFI 2.1. The decision maker must be satisfied that the
applicant should not be refused under Part Suitability.
AFI 2.2 If the applicant is in the UK, they must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.
Eligibility requirements for members of International
Armed Forces and International Civilian Employees
Entry requirements for members of International
Armed Forces and International Civilian Employees
AFI 3.1. A person seeking to come to the UK must apply
for and obtain entry clearance as a member of
International Armed Forces or an International Civilian
Employee before they arrive in the UK.
AFI 3.2. A person applying for entry clearance as a
member of International Armed Forces or an
International Civilian Employee must, if Appendix
Tuberculosis applies, provide a valid medical certificate
confirming that they have undergone screening for
active pulmonary tuberculosis and that this tuberculosis
is not present in them.
AFI 3.3. A person arriving in the UK who is seeking
entry as an International Civilian Employee and does
not have a valid entry clearance on this route may be
granted permission to enter if the following requirements
are met:

(a) the applicant is not a visa national; and
(b) the applicant has a valid passport which
satisfactorily establishes their identity and
nationality; and
(c) the applicant shows they meet the service
requirements of AFI 4.3; and
(d) the applicant must be aged 18 or over on the
date of application; and
(e) the person otherwise meets the suitability
requirements for members of International Armed
Forces and International Civilian Employees set out
AFI 2.1 and AFI 2.2.
Service requirements for members of International
Armed Forces and International Civilian Employees
AFI 4.1. A member of an International Armed Force
must show they:
(a) are a serving member of an International armed
force; and
(b) have been invited by HM Armed Forces to
undergo training in the UK provided by HM Armed
Forces; or by the Ministry of Defence to study or
become familiar with military equipment being
supplied by a firm in the UK; and
(c) will leave the UK at the end of their period of
training or familiarisation.
AFI 4.2. An International Civilian Employee must: show
they
(a) are a civilian who is being employed to work in
the UK by:
(i) a NATO force (which includes an employee of
the American Red Cross working with US Forces
in the UK); or
(ii) a company under contract to a NATO force;
or
(iii) the Australian Department of Defence; and
(b) will leave the UK at the end of their period of
employment.

AFI 4.3. For the purposes of AFI 3.3, an International
Civilian Employee must: show they are
(a) a federal employee, contracted or sub-contracted
personnel of the US Department of Energy’s
Nuclear Security Administration deployed to work
with US Forces in the UK; and
(b) will leave the UK at the end of their deployment.
Financial requirements for members of International
Armed Forces and International Civilian Employees
AFI 5.1. The applicant must be able to adequately
maintain themselves and any dependants in the UK
without access to public funds.
AFI 5.2. The applicant must show they meet the
financial requirement as specified in Appendix FM-SE.
Accommodation requirements for members of
International Armed Forces and International
Civilian Employees
AFI 6.1. The applicant’s accommodation in the UK must
not be overcrowded or contravene public health
regulations.

Decision on an application as a member
of International Armed Forces or an
International Civilian Employee
AFI 7.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that the
validity, suitability and relevant eligibility requirements
for a member of International Armed Forces or
International Civilian Employees are met, the application
will be granted, otherwise, the application will be
refused.
AFI 7.1A. For an International Civilian Employee who is
a federal employee, contracted or sub-contracted
personnel of the US Department of Energy’s Nuclear
Security Administration deployed to work with US
Forces in the UK, if the Immigration Officer is satisfied
the requirements of AFI 3.3. and AFI 4.3. are met, they

will be granted permission to enter.
AFI 7.2. If the application is refused the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix
Administrative Review.

Period of grant for a member of
International Armed Forces
AFI 8.1. Period of grant for a member of International
Armed Forces is the shorter period of:
(a) 4 years; or
(b) the duration of the training, study or
familiarisation.
AFI 8.2. An additional period of 3 months may be
granted beyond the end of the training, study or
familiarisation where the total period of permission
granted does not exceed 4 years, if:
(a) permission to stay is required to enable the
applicant to meet third country transit regulations
which require passengers to have 3 months’ extant
leave in the UK; and
(b) travel to the third country forms part of the
training, study or familiarisation.
Conditions of grant for a member of International
Armed Forces
AFI 9.1. The grant for a member of International Armed
Forces will be subject to the following conditions:
(a) no access to public funds; and
(b) no work, other than as a member of the
International Armed Force; and
(c) study permitted, subject to the ATAS condition in
Appendix ATAS.

Period of grant for an International
Civilian Employee
AFI 10.1. Period of grant for an International Civilian

Employee of a NATO force or the Australian Department
of Defence is either:
(a) 6 months, where the duration of their period of
employment in the UK does not exceed 6 months; or
(b) five years, where the duration of their period of
employment in the UK exceeds 6 months.
AFI 10.2. Period of grant for an International Civilian
Employee of a company under contract to a NATO
force, is the shorter period of:
(a) 4 years; or
(b) the duration of the period of employment of the
civilian employee.
AFI 10.3. Period of grant for an International Civilian
Employee who is a federal employee, contracted or
sub-contracted personnel of the US Department of
Energy’s Nuclear Security Administration deployed to
work with US Forces in the UK, is 60 days.
Conditions of grant for an International Civilian
Employee
AFI 11.1. The grant for a member of the International
Civilian Employee will be subject to the following
conditions:
(a) no access to public funds; and
(b) no work other than as an International Civilian
Employee; and
(c) study permitted, subject to the ATAS condition in
Appendix ATAS

Partner or child of a member of
International Armed Forces and
International Civilian Employees
Validity requirements for a partner or child of a
member of International Armed Forces and
International Civilian Employees
AFI 12.1. A person applying for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a partner or child of a member of

International Armed Forces or an International Civilian
Employee must apply on the gov.uk website, on the
specified forms as follows:
(a) for applicants outside the UK, form “Armed
Forces” on the “Find and apply for other visas from
outside the UK” form; or
(b) for applicants in the UK, form “Further leave to
remain – Immigration Rules -Armed Forces.
AFI 12.2. An application must meet all the following
requirements:
(a) any fee and the Immigration Health Charge must
have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other travel document which satisfactorily
establishes their identity and nationality.
AFI 12.3. An applicant applying for permission to stay
must be in the UK on the date of application.
AFI 12.4. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements as a partner or child of a member
of a member of the International Armed Forces or an
International Civilian Employee may be rejected as
invalid and not considered.
Suitability requirements for a partner or child of a
member of International Armed Forces and
International Civilian Employees
AFI 13.1. The decision maker must be satisfied that the
applicant should not be refused under Part Suitability.
AFI 13.2. If the applicant is in the UK, they must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.

Eligibility requirements for a partner or child of
member of an International Armed Force and
International Civilian Employees
Entry requirements for a partner or child of a
member of International Armed Forces and
International Civilian Employees
AFI 14.1. A person seeking to come to the UK must
apply for and obtain entry clearance as a partner or
child of a member of International Armed Forces and
International Civilian Employee before they arrive in the
UK.
AFI 14.2. A person applying for entry clearance as a
partner or child of a member of International Armed
Forces or an International Civilian Employee must, if
Appendix Tuberculosis applies, provide a valid medical
certificate confirming that they have undergone
screening for active pulmonary tuberculosis and that
this tuberculosis is not present in them.
Relationship requirements for a partner of a
member of an International Armed Force,
International Civilian Employees or members of an
International Armed Force exempt from control.
AFI 15.1. The applicant must:
(a) be the partner of a member of an International
Armed Force, or an International Civilian Employee
who meets the service requirements of AFI 4.1. or
AFI 4.2, who has permission or is at the same time
applying for (and is being granted) permission under
this Appendix; or
(b) be the partner of a member of an International
Armed Force exempt from control where the
applicant is listed as a partner on the International
Armed Forces member’s military movement orders
or equivalent civilian posting letter.
AFI 15.2. The requirements of Appendix Relationship
with Partner must be met.

Relationship requirements for a child of a member
of International Armed Forces, International Civilian
Employees or members of an International Armed
Force exempt from control.
AFI 16.1. The applicant must meet the following
requirements for a dependent child in Appendix
Children:
(a) age requirement; and
(b) independent life requirement; and
(c) care requirement; and
(d) relationship requirement: entry clearance and
permission to stay.
Financial requirements for a partner or child of
members of International Armed Forces,
International Civilian Employees or members of an
International Armed Force exempt from immigration
control.
AFI 17.1 The applicant must show that the member of
International Armed Forces or International Civilian
Employee is able to adequately maintain themselves
and their partner and any child in the UK without access
to public funds.
AFI 17.2. The applicant’ must show they meet the
financial requirement as specified in Appendix FM-SE.
Accommodation requirements for partner or child of
members of International Armed Forces and
International Civilian Employees
AFI 18.1. The applicant’s accommodation in the UK
must not be overcrowded or contravene public health
regulations.

Decision on an application as a partner
or child of a member of International
Armed Forces or an International
Civilian Employee
AFI 19.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that the
validity, suitability and relevant eligibility requirements
for a partner or child of International Armed Forces or
International Civilian Employees are met, the application
will be granted, otherwise the application will be
refused.
AFI 19.2. If the application is refused the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix
Administrative Review.

Period of a grant for a partner or child of
a member of International Armed Forces
AFI 20.1. Period of grant for a partner of a member of
International Armed Forces is the shorter period of:
(a) 4 years; or
(b) the duration of the member of International
Armed Forces period of posting.
AFI 20.2 A child will be granted entry clearance or
permission to stay which ends on the same date as
whichever of their parents’ permission ends first.
Conditions of grant for a partner or child of a
member of International Armed Forces
AFI 21.2. The grant for a partner or child of a member of
International Armed Forces will be subject to all the
following conditions:
(a) no access to public funds; and
(b) no work if permission is being granted for less
than 6 months; and
(c) work permitted if period of grant is for 6 months
or more: and
(d) study is permitted, subject to the ATAS

conditions in Appendix ATAS.

Period of grant for a partner or child of
an International Civilian Employee
AFI 22.1. Period of grant for a partner of a civilian
employee of a NATO force or the Australian Department
of Defence are:
(a) 6 months, where the duration of the civilian
employee of a NATO force or the Australian
Department of Defence’s period of employment in
the UK is less than 6 months; or
(b) 5 years, where the duration of the civilian
employee of a NATO force or the Australian
Department of Defence’s period of employment in
the UK is for 6 months or more; or
(c) where the grant is as a partner of a Civilian
Employee under contract to a NATO force, the
shorter period of 4 years or the duration of the
period of the civilian employee’s employment.
AFI 22.2. A child will be granted entry clearance or
permission to stay which ends on the same date as
whichever of their parents’ permission ends first.
Conditions of grant for a partner or child of an
International Civilian Employee
AFI 23.1. The grant for a partner or child of an
International Civilian Employee will be subject to the
following conditions:
(a) no access to public funds; and
(b) no work if granted is for less than 6 months; and
(c) work permitted if grant is for 6 months or more;
and
(d) study is permitted; subject to the ATAS
conditions in Appendix ATAS.

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

© Crown copyright

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix International Sportsperson - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:46 am

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix
International Sportsperson
The International Sportsperson route is for
an elite sportsperson or qualified sports
coach who is internationally established
and can make a significant contribution to
the development of their sport at its highest
level in the UK.
A person applying on this route must have a Governing
Body Endorsement from an appropriate Sports
Governing Body listed in Appendix Sports Governing
Bodies. Applicants seeking permission for a period of
more than 12 months will also be required to meet the
English language requirement.
The partner and children of an International
Sportsperson can apply on this route.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-international-sportsperson

Page 1 of 26

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix International Sportsperson - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:46 am

This is a route to settlement.

Validity requirements for an
International Sportsperson
ISP 1.1. A person applying for entry clearance or
permission to stay as an International Sportsperson
must apply online on the gov.uk website on the specified
form as follows:
Applicant

Specified form

EEA national
with a chipped
passport

Either:
• International Sportsperson using
the UK Immigration: ID Check app;
or
• the forms listed below for
applicants outside or inside the UK
(as relevant)

Applicants
outside the UK

International Sportsperson visa

Applicants inside
the UK

International Sportsperson

ISP 1.2. An application for entry clearance or permission
to stay on the International Sportsperson route must
meet all the following requirements:
(a) any fee and Immigration Health Charge must
have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other travel document which satisfactorily
establishes their identity and nationality; and
(d) the applicant must have a Certificate of
Sponsorship that was issued to them by their
sponsor no more than three months before the date
of application.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-international-sportsperson

Page 2 of 26

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix International Sportsperson - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:46 am

ISP 1.3. The applicant must be aged 16 or over on the
date of application.
ISP 1.4. If an applicant has, in the last 12 months before
the date of application, received an award from a
Government or international scholarship agency
covering both fees and living costs for study in the UK,
they must provide written consent from that Government
or agency.
ISP 1.5. If applying for permission to stay, the applicant
must be in the UK on the date of application.
ISP 1.5ZA. If applying for permission to stay, the
applicant must not have, or have last been granted,
permission:
(a) as a Visitor, except where the applicant has been
in the UK undertaking the activities in paragraphs PA
15.1. to PA 15.3. of Appendix Visitor: Permitted
Activities, or paragraph V 13.3 (f) of Appendix V:
Visitor; or
(b) as a Short-term student; or
(c) as a Parent of a Child Student; or
(d) as a Seasonal Worker; or
(e) as a Domestic Worker in a Private Household; or
(f) outside the Immigration Rules.
ISP 1.5A. An applicant who is applying for permission to
stay and has, or last had, permission as a Student, must
fulfil one of the Conditions A, B or C below on the date
of application:
(a) Condition A: the applicant must have completed
the course of study for which the Confirmation of
Acceptance for Studies was assigned (or a course to
which ST 27.3 of Appendix Student applies); or
(b) Condition B:
(i) the applicant must be studying a full-time
course of study at degree level or above with a
higher education provider which has a track
record of compliance; and
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-international-sportsperson

Page 3 of 26

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix International Sportsperson - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:46 am

(ii) the Certificate of Sponsorship in ISP 1.2(d)
must have a start date no earlier than the course
completion date; or
(c) Condition C:
(i) the applicant must be studying a full-time
course of study leading to the award of a PhD
with a higher education provider which has a
track record of compliance; and
(ii) the Certificate of Sponsorship in ISP 1.2(d)
must have a start date no earlier than 24 months
after the start date of that course.
ISP 1.6. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for an International Sportsperson
may be rejected as invalid and not considered.

Suitability requirements for an
International Sportsperson
ISP 2.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
ISP 2.2. If applying for permission to stay, the applicant
must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.

Eligibility requirements for an
International Sportsperson
Entry requirements for an International
Sportsperson
ISP 3.1. A person seeking to come to the UK as an
International Sportsperson must apply for and obtain
entry clearance as an International Sportsperson before
their arrival in the UK.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-international-sportsperson

Page 4 of 26

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix International Sportsperson - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:46 am

ISP 3.2. A person applying for entry clearance as an
International Sportsperson must, if Appendix
Tuberculosis applies, provide a valid medical certificate
confirming that they have undergone screening for
active pulmonary tuberculosis and that this tuberculosis
is not present in them.
Points requirements for an International
Sportsperson
ISP 4.1. An applicant applying for entry clearance or
permission to stay as an International Sportsperson for
a period of 12 months or less must be awarded all 70
points in table A below.
ISP 4.2. An applicant applying for entry clearance or
permission to stay as an International Sportsperson for
a period exceeding 12 months must be awarded all 80
points in tables A and B below.
Table A
Points required
(mandatory)

Relevant rules

Points
available

Governing Body
Endorsement

ISP 5.1

50

Certificate of
Sponsorship

ISP 5.2 and
ISP 5.3

10

Financial requirements

ISP 7.1 to ISP
7.3

10

Table B
Points required (mandatory)
where the period of permission
applied for exceeds 12 months

Relevant
rules

Points
available

English Language at level A1

ISP 8.1
and ISP

10

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-international-sportsperson

Page 5 of 26

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix International Sportsperson - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:46 am

8.2

Endorsement requirement for an International
Sportsperson
ISP 5.1. The applicant must provide a letter, containing
the unique endorsement number issued to them, from
the relevant Sports Governing Body listed in Appendix
Sports Governing Bodies, confirming the applicant:
(a) is elite; and
(b) is internationally established; and
(c) will make a significant contribution to the
development of their sport at the highest level in the
UK.
Certificate of sponsorship requirement for an
International Sportsperson
ISP 5.2. The applicant must have a valid Certificate of
Sponsorship for the job they are planning to do; which to
be valid must:
(a) confirm the applicant’s name, that they are being
sponsored as an International Sportsperson, details
of the job and salary the sponsor is offering them;
and
(b) must have been assigned before the applicant
entered the UK if the application is for permission to
stay and the applicant last had permission as a
Visitor undertaking permitted activities for
sportspersons; and
(c) include a start date, stated by the sponsor, which
must be no more than three months after the date of
application; and
(d) not have been used in a previous application
which was either granted or refused (but can have
been used in a previous application which was
rejected as invalid, made void or withdrawn); and
(e) not have been withdrawn by the sponsor or
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-international-sportsperson

Page 6 of 26

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix International Sportsperson - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:46 am

cancelled by the Home Office; and
(f) state the unique endorsement number that has
been issued to the applicant by the appropriate
governing body specified in Appendix Sports
Governing Bodies; and
(g) confirm that the applicant intends to be based in
the UK; and
(h) confirm that the job is one the applicant is
qualified to undertake.
ISP. 5.3. The sponsor must be authorised by the Home
Office to sponsor the job in question under the
International Sportsperson route.
ISP 5.4. The sponsor must be listed as A-rated on the
Home Office’s register of licensed sponsors unless the
applicant was last granted permission as an
International Sportsperson and is applying to continue
working for the same sponsor as in their last permission.
ISP 5.5. The decision maker must not have reasonable
grounds to believe the job the applicant is being
sponsored to do does not comply with the National
Minimum Wage Regulations or the Working Time
Regulations.
Genuineness requirement for an International
Sportsperson
ISP 6.1. The applicant must:
(a) genuinely intend, and be able, to undertake the
role for which they are being sponsored; and
(b) not intend to undertake employment other than in
the role for which they are being sponsored, or as
otherwise permitted at ISP 11.3.
Financial requirement for an International
Sportsperson
ISP 7.1. If the applicant is applying for permission to
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-international-sportsperson

Page 7 of 26

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix International Sportsperson - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:46 am

stay and has been living in the UK with permission for
12 months or longer on the date of application, they will
meet the financial requirement and do not need to show
funds.
ISP 7.2. If the applicant is applying for entry clearance,
or is applying for permission to stay and has been living
in the UK for less than 12 months on the date of
application, either:
(a) the applicant must have funds of at least £1,270;
or
(b) the applicant’s A rated sponsor must confirm on
the Certificate of Sponsorship that they will, if it is
necessary, maintain and accommodate the applicant
up to the end of the first month of their employment
for an amount of at least £1,270.
ISP 7.3. If ISP 7.2 (a) applies, the applicant must have
held the required level of funds for a 28 day period and
must show funds as specified in Appendix Finance.
English language requirement for an International
Sportsperson
ISP 8.1. Unless an exemption applies, if the applicant is
applying for entry clearance or permission to stay as an
International Sportsperson for a period exceeding 12
months, the applicant must show English language
ability on the Common European Framework of
Reference for Languages in speaking and listening of at
least level A1.
ISP 8.2. If ISP 8.1. applies, the applicant must show
they meet the English Language requirement as
specified in Appendix English Language.
Parental consent requirement for an International
Sportsperson aged under 18
ISP 9.1. The applicant must meet the parental consent
requirement for an applicant not applying as a
dependent child in Appendix Children.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-international-sportsperson

Page 8 of 26

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix International Sportsperson - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:46 am

ISP 9.2. DELETED.

Decision on an application as an
International Sportsperson
ISP 10.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all the
suitability and eligibility requirements are met for an
International Sportsperson, the application will be
granted, otherwise the application will be refused.
ISP 10.2. If the application is refused the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.

Period of grant for an International
Sportsperson
ISP 11.1. If the applicant is applying for entry clearance
or permission to stay as an International Sportsperson
for a period of 12 months or less, they will be granted
entry clearance or permission to stay for whichever is
the shorter of:
(a) up to 14 days after the period of employment
stated on their Certificate of Sponsorship; or
(b) 12 months.
ISP 11.2. If the applicant is applying for entry clearance
or permission to stay as an International Sportsperson
for a period exceeding 12 months, they will be granted
entry clearance or permission to stay for whichever is
the shorter of:
(a) up to 14 days after the period of employment
stated on their Certificate of Sponsorship; or
(b) three years.
Conditions of grant for an International
Sportsperson
ISP 11.3. The grant will be subject to all the following
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-international-sportsperson

Page 9 of 26

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix International Sportsperson - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:46 am

conditions:
(a) no access to public funds; and
(b) work is permitted in the job the applicant is being
sponsored for; and
(c) supplementary employment is permitted; and
(d) voluntary work is permitted; and
(e) working out a contractual notice period is
permitted, for a job the applicant was lawfully
working in on the date of application; and
(f) employment as a sportsperson for the applicant’s
national team while their national team is in the UK,
playing in British University and College Sport
(BUCS) competitions, and temporary engagements
as a sports broadcaster providing guest expert
commentary on a particular sporting event, are
permitted; and
(g) study is permitted, subject to the ATAS condition
in Appendix ATAS.
(h) DELETED.

Settlement as an International
Sportsperson
Validity requirements for settlement as an
International Sportsperson
ISP 12.1. A person applying for settlement as an
International Sportsperson must apply online on the
gov.uk website on the specified form, “Settle in the UK
in various immigration categories: form SET(O)”.
ISP 12.2. An application for settlement as an
International Sportsperson must meet all the following
requirements:
(a) any fee must have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-international-sportsperson

Page 10 of 26

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix International Sportsperson - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:46 am

other travel document which satisfactorily
establishes their identity and nationality; and
(d) the applicant must be in the UK on the date of
application.
ISP 12.3. The applicant must:
(a) have, or have last been granted, permission as
an International Sportsperson; and
(b) have, at any point during the five year continuous
residence period, been granted leave as an
International Sportsperson for a period exceeding 12
months.
ISP 12.4. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for settlement as an International
Sportsperson may be rejected as invalid and not
considered.
Suitability requirements for settlement as an
International Sportsperson
ISP 13.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
ISP 13.2. The applicant must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.
Eligibility requirements for settlement as an
International Sportsperson
Qualifying period requirement for settlement as an
International Sportsperson
ISP 14.1. The applicant must have spent a continuous
period of five years in the UK.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-international-sportsperson

Page 11 of 26

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix International Sportsperson - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:46 am

ISP 14.2. The five year continuous period must consist
of time with permission (not as a dependant) on any of,
or any combination of, the following routes:
(a) Skilled Worker; or
(b) Global talent; or
(c) Innovator Founder; or
(d) T2 Minister of Religion; or
(e) International Sportsperson; or
(f) Representative of an Overseas Business; or
(g) Tier 1, other than Tier 1 (Graduate
Entrepreneur); or
(h) Scale-up; or
(i) permission on any other route, during the time the
applicant was waiting for a decision on their
application as an International Sportsperson,
providing that application:
(i) was for permission to stay; and
(ii) was made between 24 January 2020 and 30
June 2021 (inclusive); and
(iii) was supported on the date of application by a
certificate of sponsorship assigned by a licensed
sponsor; and
(iv) was granted.
Continuous residence requirement for settlement as
an International Sportsperson
ISP 15.1. The applicant must meet the continuous
residence requirement as set out in Appendix
Continuous Residence during the period in ISP 14.1.
English language requirement for settlement as an
International Sportsperson
ISP 16.1. Unless an exemption applies, the applicant
must:
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-international-sportsperson

Page 12 of 26

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix International Sportsperson - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:46 am

(a) Where the date of application is before 26 March
2027, the applicant must, unless an exemption
applies, show English language ability on the
Common European Framework of Reference for
Languages in speaking and listening to at least level
B1; or
(b) Where the date of application is on or after 26
March 2027, the applicant must, unless an
exemption applies, show English language ability on
the Common European Framework of Reference for
Languages in speaking and listening to at least level
B2.
ISP 16.2. If ISP 16.1. applies, the applicant must show
they meet the English language requirement as
specified in Appendix English Language.
Knowledge of Life in the UK requirement for
settlement as an International Sportsperson
ISP 17.1. Unless an exemption applies, the applicant
must meet the Knowledge of Life in the UK requirement
as set out in Appendix KOL UK.
Sponsorship requirement for settlement as an
International Sportsperson
ISP 18.1. The sponsor in the applicant’s most recent
permission must still be approved by the Home Office to
sponsor International Sportspersons on the date of
decision.
ISP 18.2. The sponsor must confirm that they still
require the applicant to work for them for the
foreseeable future, and that the applicant is paid, and
will be paid for the foreseeable future, at least the salary
of £35,800 per year.
ISP 18.3. The salary in ISP 18.2. is subject to the
following requirements:
(a) the salary must:
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-international-sportsperson

Page 13 of 26

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix International Sportsperson - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:46 am

(i) be basic pay (excluding overtime); and
(ii) only include allowances where they are part
of the guaranteed salary package and would be
paid to a local settled worker in similar
circumstances; and
(iii) not include other allowances and benefits,
such as bonus or incentive pay, employer
pension contributions, travel and subsistence
(including travel to and from the applicant’s
home country); and
(iv) not include the value of any shares the
applicant has received as an employee- owner in
exchange for some of their UK employment
rights; and
(b) if the applicant is being sponsored to work more
than 48 hours a week, only the salary for the first 48
hours a week will be considered towards the salary
threshold of £35,800; and
(c) if the applicant is currently absent from work for
one of the reasons set out in Part Suitability,
paragraph SUI 36.1. or has returned from such an
absence within the month before the date of
application, consideration will be based on their
salary on their return to work, as stated by their
sponsor.

Decision on an application for
settlement as an International
Sportsperson
ISP 19.1. If the decision maker is satisfied all the
suitability and eligibility requirements for settlement as
an International Sportsperson are met, the applicant will
be granted settlement, otherwise the application will be
refused.
ISP 19.2. If the application is refused, the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-international-sportsperson

Page 14 of 26

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix International Sportsperson - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:46 am

Dependants of an International
Sportsperson
Validity requirements for a dependent partner or
dependent child of an International Sportsperson
ISP 20.1. A person applying for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a dependent partner or dependent
child of an International Sportsperson must apply online
on the gov.uk website on the specified form as follows:
Applicant

Specified form

EEA
national
with a
chipped
passport

Either (as applicable):
• Dependant partner or dependant child
using the UK Immigration: ID Check app;
or
• the forms listed below for dependant
applicants outside or inside the UK as
relevant.

Applicants
outside
the UK

Dependant partner visa Dependant child
visa

Applicants
inside the
UK

If the dependant is applying at the same
time as the International Sportsperson,
they can be included in the form
International Sportsperson where the form
allows dependants to be added. Otherwise:
- Dependant partner
- Dependant child

ISP 20.2. An application for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a partner or child of an
International Sportsperson must meet all the following
requirements:
(a) any fee and Immigration Health Charge must
have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-international-sportsperson

Page 15 of 26

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix International Sportsperson - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:46 am

(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other travel document which satisfactorily
establishes their identity and nationality; and
(d) the applicant must be applying as partner or child
of a person (P) who:
(i) has made a valid application for entry
clearance or permission to stay on the
International Sportsperson route that has not
been decided; or
(ii) has entry clearance or permission to stay on
the International Sportsperson route; or
(iii) is settled or has become a British citizen,
providing that P had permission on the
International Sportsperson route when they
settled and the applicant either had permission
as their partner or child at that time, or the
applicant is applying as a child of P and the
applicant was born in the UK before P settled.
ISP 20.3. An applicant applying as a dependent partner
must be aged 18 or over on the date of application.
ISP 20.4. If applying for permission to stay, the applicant
must be in the UK on the date of application.
ISP 20.4ZA. If applying for permission to stay, the
applicant must not have, or have last been granted,
permission:
(a) as a Visitor; or
(b) as a Short-term Student; or
(c) as a Parent of a Child Student; or
(d) as a Seasonal Worker; or
(e) as a Domestic Worker in a Private Household; or
(f) outside the Immigration Rules.
ISP 20.4A. An applicant who is applying for permission
to stay and has, or last had, permission as a Student,
must fulfil one of the Conditions A or B below on the
date of application:
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-international-sportsperson

Page 16 of 26

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix International Sportsperson - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:46 am

(a) Condition A: the applicant must have completed
the course of study for which the Confirmation of
Acceptance for Studies was assigned (or a course to
which ST 27.3 of Appendix Student applies); or
(b) Condition B: the applicant must:
(i) be studying a full-time course of study leading
to the award of a PhD with a higher education
provider which has a track record of compliance;
and
(ii) have completed at least 24 months of study
on that course.
ISP 20.5. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for a partner or child of an
International Sportsperson may be rejected as invalid
and not considered.
Suitability requirements for a dependent partner or
dependent child of an International Sportsperson
ISP 21.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
ISP 21.2. If applying for permission to stay the applicant
must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.
Eligibility requirements for a dependent partner or
dependent child of an International Sportsperson
Entry requirement for a dependent partner or
dependent child of an International Sportsperson
ISP 22.1. A person seeking to come to the UK as a
dependent partner or dependent child of an International
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-international-sportsperson

Page 17 of 26

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix International Sportsperson - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:46 am

Sportsperson must apply for and obtain entry clearance
as a dependent partner or dependent child of an
International Sportsperson before they arrive in the UK.
ISP 22.2. A person applying for entry clearance as the
partner or child of an International Sportsperson must, if
Appendix Tuberculosis applies, provide a valid medical
certificate confirming that they have undergone
screening for active pulmonary tuberculosis and that this
tuberculosis is not present in them.
Relationship requirement for a dependent partner of
an International Sportsperson
ISP 23.1. The applicant must be the partner of a person
(P) where one of the following applies:
(a) P has permission on the International
Sportsperson route; or
(b) P is, at the same time, applying for (and is
granted) entry clearance or permission on the
International Sportsperson route; or
(c) P is settled or has become a British citizen,
providing P had permission on the International
Sportsperson route when they settled and the
applicant had permission as P’s partner at that time.
ISP 23.2. The requirements of Appendix Relationship
with Partner must be met.
ISP 23.3. DELETED.
ISP 23.4. DELETED.
Relationship requirement for a dependent child of
an International Sportsperson
ISP 24.1. DELETED.
ISP 24.2. DELETED.
ISP 24.3. DELETED.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-international-sportsperson

Page 18 of 26

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix International Sportsperson - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:46 am

Care requirement for a dependent child of an
International Sportsperson
ISP 25.1. DELETED.
Age requirement for a dependent child of an
International Sportsperson
ISP 26.1. DELETED.
ISP 26.2. DELETED.
Requirements for a dependent child of an
International Sportsperson
ISP 26A.1. The applicant must meet the following
requirements for a dependent child in Appendix
Children:
(a) relationship requirement: entry clearance and
permission to stay; and
(b) care requirement; and
(c) age and independent life requirement.
Financial requirement for a dependent partner or
dependent child of an International Sportsperson
ISP 27.1. If the applicant is applying for permission to
stay and has been living in the UK with permission for
12 months or longer on the date of application, they will
meet the financial requirement and do not need to show
funds.
ISP 27.2. If the applicant is applying for entry clearance,
or has been in the UK for less than 12 months on the
date of application, either:
(a) funds of at least the amount required in ISP 27.3.
must be held collectively by one or more of the
following:
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-international-sportsperson

Page 19 of 26

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix International Sportsperson - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:46 am

i) the applicant; and
ii) the International Sportsperson (P); and
iii) if the applicant is applying as a dependent
child, their parent who is lawfully present in the
UK or being granted entry clearance, or
permission to stay, at the same time; or
(b) the International Sportsperson’s A-rated sponsor
must certify that they will, if necessary, maintain and
accommodate the dependent partner and/or any
dependent child as well as the International
Sportsperson, up to the end of the first month of
each of their grants of permission, to at least the
amounts required in ISP 27.3.
ISP 27.3. The funds required are:
(a) £285 for a dependent partner in the UK, or
applying for entry clearance; and
(b) £315 for the first dependent child in the UK, or
applying for entry clearance; and
(c) £200 for any other dependent child in the UK, or
applying for entry clearance.
ISP 27.4. If ISP 27.2.(a) applies, the funds held for the
applicant must be held in addition to any funds required
for the International Sportsperson to meet the financial
requirement and any other dependants in the UK or
applying at the same time.
ISP 27.5. If ISP 27.2.(a) applies, the funds must have
been held for a 28-day period and as specified in
Appendix Finance.

Decision on an application as a
dependent partner or dependent child of
an International Sportsperson
ISP 28.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all the
suitability and eligibility requirements for a dependent
partner or dependent child of an International
Sportsperson are met, the application will be granted,
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-international-sportsperson

Page 20 of 26

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix International Sportsperson - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:46 am

otherwise the application will be refused.
ISP 28.2. If the application is refused, the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.

Period of grant for a dependent partner
or dependent child of an International
Sportsperson
ISP 29.1. A partner will be granted:
(a) permission which ends on the same date as their
partner’s permission as an International
Sportsperson; or
(b) three years’ permission if the International
Sportsperson was (or is being) granted settlement
as an International Sportsperson.
ISP 29.2. A child will be granted permission which ends
on the same date as whichever of their parents’
permission ends first, unless both parents have (or are
being granted) settlement or British citizenship, in which
case the child will be granted permission for three years.
Conditions of grant for a dependent partner and
dependent child of an International Sportsperson
ISP 29.3. The grant will be subject to all the following
conditions:
(a) no access to public funds; and
(b) work (including self-employment and voluntary
work) is permitted, except as a professional
sportsperson (including as a sports coach); and
(c) study is permitted, subject to the ATAS condition
in Appendix ATAS if the applicant is over the age of
18.
(d) DELETED.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-international-sportsperson

Page 21 of 26

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix International Sportsperson - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:46 am

Settlement as a dependent partner or
dependent child of an International
Sportsperson
Validity requirements for settlement as a dependent
partner or dependent child of International
Sportsperson
ISP 30.1. A person applying for settlement as a
dependent partner or dependent child of an International
Sportsperson must apply online on the gov.uk website
on the specified form, “Settle in the UK in various
immigration categories: form SET(O)”.
ISP 30.2. An application for settlement as a partner or
child of an International Sportsperson must meet all the
following requirements:
(a) any fee must have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided either a
passport or other travel document which
satisfactorily establishes their identity and
nationality; and
(d) the applicant must be in the UK on the date of
application; and
(e) the applicant must be applying as a partner or
child of a person (P) who:
(i) has made a valid application for settlement in
the UK as an International Sportsperson and that
application has not been decided; or
(ii) is settled or has become a British citizen,
providing they had permission as an
International Sportsperson when they settled and
the applicant either had permission as their
partner or child at that time or is applying as a
child of P and was born in the UK before P
settled.
ISP 30.3. An application which does not meet the
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-international-sportsperson

Page 22 of 26

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix International Sportsperson - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:46 am

validity requirements for settlement as a partner or child
of an International Sportsperson may be rejected as
invalid and not considered.
Suitability requirements for settlement as a
dependent partner or dependent child of an
International Sportsperson
ISP 31.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
ISP 31.2. The applicant must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.
Eligibility requirements for settlement as a
dependent partner or dependent child of an
International Sportsperson
Relationship requirement for settlement as a
dependent partner or dependent child of an
International Sportsperson
ISP 32.1. The applicant must be the partner or child of a
person (P) where one of the following applies:
(a) P is, at the same time, being granted settlement
as an International Sportsperson; or
(b) P is settled in the UK or has become a British
citizen, providing P had permission as an
International Sportsperson when they settled and
the applicant either:
(i) had permission as P’s partner or child at that
time; or
(ii) is applying as a child of P, and was born in
the UK before P settled.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-international-sportsperson

Page 23 of 26

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix International Sportsperson - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:46 am

ISP 32.2. The applicant must either:
(a) have last been granted permission as a
dependent partner or dependent child of the person
(P) in ISP 32.1; or
(b) have been born in the UK and be applying as a
child of the person (P) in ISP 32.1.
ISP 32.3. If applying as a child, the applicant must meet
the relationship requirement for settlement in Appendix
Children.
ISP 32.4. If applying as a partner, the requirements of
Appendix Relationship with Partner must be met.
Care requirement for settlement as a dependent
child of an International Sportsperson
ISP 33.1. DELETED.
Age requirement for settlement as a dependent
child of an International Sportsperson
ISP 34.1. DELETED.
ISP 34.2. DELETED.
Requirements for settlement as a dependent child of
an International Sportsperson
ISP 34A.1. The applicant must meet the following
requirements for a dependent child in Appendix
Children:
(a) care requirement; and
(b) age and independent life requirement.
Qualifying period requirement for settlement as a
dependent partner of an International Sportsperson
ISP 35.1. The applicant must have spent a continuous
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-international-sportsperson

Page 24 of 26

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix International Sportsperson - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:46 am

period of five years in the UK with permission as a
dependent partner of the person (P) in ISP 32.1.
Continuous residence requirement for settlement as
a dependent partner of an International
Sportsperson
ISP 36.1. The applicant must meet the continuous
residence requirement as set out in Appendix
Continuous Residence during the period in ISP 35.1.
English language requirement for settlement as a
dependent partner or dependent child of an
International Sportsperson
ISP 37.1. Unless an exemption applies, the applicant
must:
(a) Where the date of application is before 26 March
2027, the applicant must, unless an exemption
applies, show English language ability on the
Common European Framework of Reference for
Languages in speaking and listening to at least level
B1; or
(b) Where the date of application is on or after 26
March 2027, the applicant must, unless an
exemption applies, show English language ability on
the Common European Framework of Reference for
Languages in speaking and listening to at least level
B2.
ISP 37.2. The applicant must show they meet the
English language requirement as specified in Appendix
English Language.
Knowledge of Life in the UK requirement for
settlement as a dependent partner or dependent
child of an International Sportsperson
ISP 38.1. Unless an exemption applies, the applicant
must meet the Knowledge of Life in the UK requirement
as set out in Appendix KOL UK.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-international-sportsperson

Page 25 of 26

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix International Sportsperson - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:46 am

Decision on an application for
settlement as a dependent partner or
dependent child of an International
Sportsperson
ISP 39.1. If the decision maker is satisfied all the
suitability and eligibility requirements are met for
settlement as a dependent partner or dependent child of
an International Sportsperson, the application will be
granted, otherwise the application will be refused.
ISP 39.2. If the application is refused the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-international-sportsperson

© Crown copyright

Page 26 of 26

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix KOL UK - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:06 pm

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix KOL UK
This Appendix sets out how the Knowledge
of Life in the UK requirement is met by a
person applying for settlement.
It applies only to applications for settlement under
Appendix Student, Appendix Skilled Worker, Appendix
Representatives of an Overseas Business, Appendix T2
Minister of Religion, Appendix International
Sportsperson, Appendix UK Ancestry, Appendix Global
Talent, Appendix Innovator Founder, Appendix T5
(Temporary Worker) International Agreement Worker,
Appendix Domestic Worker in a Private Household,
Appendix Scale-up, Appendix Private Life, Appendix
Settlement Family Life, Appendix Hong Kong British
National (Overseas), Appendix Child Relative (Sponsors
with Protection), Appendix Long Residence and
Appendix HM Armed Forces.
Applications for settlement under other routes must
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-kol-uk

Page 1 of 3

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix KOL UK - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:06 pm

continue to meet Appendix KOLL.

Exemption
KOL 1.1. An applicant is exempt from the Knowledge of
Life in the UK requirement if at the date of application,
they:
(a) are aged 65 or over; or
(b) are aged under 18; or
(c) have a disability (physical or mental condition)
which prevents them from meeting the requirement;
or
(d) are applying for settlement as a partner, parent
or dependent child aged over 18 and are exempt
from meeting the English language requirements
following 15 years under Appendix EL 1.1(d).

Knowledge of Life in the UK requirement
KOL 2.1. An applicant will meet the Knowledge of Life in
the UK requirement if they:
(a) provide a valid digital reference number from an
educational institution or other person approved for
this purpose by the Secretary of State showing they
have passed the Life in the UK test; or
(b) are resident in the Isle of Man, and provide a
valid digital reference number from an educational
institution or other person approved for this purpose
by the Lieutenant Governor showing they have
passed the Isle of Man’s Life in the UK test; or
(c) are resident in the Bailiwick of Guernsey or in the
Bailiwick of Jersey, and provide a valid digital
reference number from an educational institution or
other person approved for that purpose by the
Lieutenant Governor of Guernsey or Jersey showing
they have passed the “Citizenship Test”.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-kol-uk

Page 2 of 3

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix KOL UK - Guidance - GOV.UK

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-kol-uk

07/05/2026, 12:06 pm

© Crown copyright

Page 3 of 3

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix KoLL
Knowledge of language and life.

Part 1 – general
1.1
Purpose
This Appendix sets out how an applicant for indefinite
leave to enter or remain must demonstrate sufficient
knowledge of the English language and about life in the
United Kingdom where it is a requirement of the Rules
to demonstrate this for the purposes of an application
for indefinite leave to enter or remain. It also sets out
general exemptions to the requirement on grounds of
age and enables the decision maker to waive the
requirement in light of special circumstances in any
particular case
“Specified” in this Appendix means “specified in Part 4

of this appendix”

Part 2 - knowledge of language and life
2.1 An applicant for indefinite leave to enter or remain
has sufficient knowledge of the English language and
about life in the United Kingdom if they meet the
requirements set out in paragraphs 2.2 and 2.3. They
do not need to satisfy the requirements in 2.2 and 2.3
where the exceptions set out in Part 3 of this Appendix
apply.
2.2 For the purposes of paragraph 2.1, an applicant
demonstrates sufficient knowledge of the English
language if:
(a) the applicant has provided specified
documentary evidence that:
(i) the applicant is a national or citizen of one of
the following countries:
Antigua and Barbuda
Australia
The Bahamas
Barbados
Belize
The British Overseas Territories
Canada
Dominica
Grenada
Guyana
Jamaica
New Zealand
St Kitts and Nevis
St Lucia
St Vincent and the Grenadines
Trinidad and Tobago
USA
Malta.

or
(iii) the applicant has obtained an academic
qualification (not a professional or vocational
qualification) which either:
1) is a UK Bachelor’s degree, Master’s
degree or PhD; or
2) is deemed by the qualification and
language assessments provider to meet the
recognised standard of a Bachelor’s or
Master’s degree or PhD in the UK, from an
educational establishment in one of the
following countries: Antigua and Barbuda;
Australia; The Bahamas; Barbados; Belize;
The British Overseas Territories; Dominica;
Grenada; Guyana; Ireland; Jamaica; New
Zealand; St Kitts and Nevis; St Lucia; St
Vincent and The Grenadines; Trinidad and
Tobago; the USA; Malta; and provides the
specified documents; or
or
(iv) the applicant has obtained an academic
qualification (not a professional or vocational
qualification) which is deemed by the
qualification and language assessments provider
to meet the recognised standard of a Bachelor’s
or Master’s degree or PhD in the UK, and
1) provides the specified documentary
evidence to show he has the qualification,
and
2) the qualification and language
assessments provider has confirmed that the
qualification was taught or researched in
English; or
(v) Deleted or
(b) the applicant applied before 26 March 2027 and
the applicant:
(i) has limited leave to enter or remain in the UK,
and
(ii) that leave (or a grant of leave which preceded
it provided any periods of leave since have been
unbroken) was given on the basis that the
applicant had an English language qualification

at a minimum level of B1 on the Common
European Framework of Reference for
Languages; and
(iii) at the date of application, the provider of that
qualification continues to be approved by the
Secretary of State; or
(ba) the applicant applied on or after 26 March 2027
and:
(i)has limited leave to enter or remain in the UK,
and
(ii) that leave (or a grant of leave which preceded
it provided any periods of leave since have been
unbroken) was given on the basis that the
applicant had an English language qualification
at a minimum level of B2 on the Common
European Framework of Reference for
Languages; and
(iii) at the date of application, the provider of that
qualification continues to be approved by the
Secretary of State.
or
(c) the online verification system operated by an
approved English language test provider, as
published on the UK Visas and Immigration pages of
Gov.uk confirms:
(i) where the date of application is before 26
March 2027, that the applicant has passed an
English language test in speaking and listening,
at a minimum level B1 of the Common European
Framework of Reference for Languages, which
is approved by the Secretary of State, and taken
at a test centre approved by the Secretary of
State as a Secure English Language Test Centre
no more than two years before the date of
application; or
(ii) where the date of application is on or after 26
March 2027, that the applicant has passed an
English language test in speaking and listening,
at a minimum level B2 of the Common European
Framework of Reference for Languages, which
is approved by the Secretary of State, and taken
at a test centre approved by the Secretary of
State as a Secure English Language Test Centre

no more than two years before the date of
application.
2.3 For the purposes of sub-paragraph (1), an applicant
demonstrates sufficient knowledge about life in the
United Kingdom if:
(a) the applicant has passed the test known as the
“Life in the UK test” administered by an educational
institution or other person approved for this purpose
by the Secretary of State; or
(b) in respect of an applicant who was resident in
the Isle of Man, the applicant took and passed the
test in the Isle of Man known as the “Life in the UK
test” and which was administered by an educational
institution or other person approved for that purpose
by the Lieutenant Governor; or
(c) in respect of an applicant who was resident in the
Bailiwick of Guernsey or in the Bailiwick of Jersey,
the applicant took and passed the test known as the
“Citizenship Test” and which was administered by an
educational institution or other person approved for
that purpose by the Lieutenant Governor of
Guernsey or Jersey (as the case may be).

Part 3 - exceptions
3.1 Notwithstanding any requirement to the contrary in
these Rules, for the purposes of this appendix, an
applicant will not be required to demonstrate sufficient
knowledge of the English language and about life in the
UK where:
(a) the applicant is under 18 years of age at the date
of his or her application, or
(b) the applicant is at least 65 years of age at the
date of his or her application, or
(c) in all the circumstances of the case, the decision
maker considers that, because of the applicant’s
mental or physical condition, it would be
unreasonable to expect the applicant to fulfil either
or both parts of that requirement.
3.2 In the following circumstances an applicant will be
deemed to have demonstrated sufficient knowledge of

the English language and about life in the UK:
(a) Where the application for indefinite leave to enter or
remain in the United Kingdom is made under:
(i) paragraph 196D, as a dependent partner under
Appendix UK Ancestry or Appendix Representative
of an Overseas Business and the applicant has had,
as at the day on which the application is made,
continuous leave to enter or remain in the United
Kingdom for at least 15 years as the spouse or civil
partner of a person who has or has had leave to
enter or remain under paragraphs 128-193 (but not
paragraphs 135I -135K), or
(ii) paragraph 199, as a dependent child under
Appendix UK Ancestry or Appendix Representative
of an Overseas Business and the applicant has had,
as at the day on which the application was made,
continuous leave to enter or remain in the United
Kingdom for at least 15 years as the child of a
person who has or has had leave to enter or remain
in the United Kingdom under paragraphs 128–193
(but not paragraphs 135l-135K), or
(iii) paragraph 248D and the applicant has had, as at
the day on which the application was made,
continuous leave to enter or remain in the United
Kingdom for at least 15 years as a person exercising
rights of access to a child resident in the United
Kingdom and that child is under the age of 18 at the
day on which the applicant’s application for indefinite
leave is made under paragraph 248D, or
(iv) paragraph 273D and the applicant has had, as
at the day on which the application is made,
continuous leave to enter or remain in the United
Kingdom for at least 15 years as a spouse or civil
partner of a person who has or has had leave to
enter or remain in the United Kingdom as a retired
person of independent means, or
(v) paragraph 275A and the applicant has had, as at
the day on which the application was made,
continuous leave to enter or remain in the United
Kingdom for at least 15 years as the child of a
person who has or has had leave to enter or remain
in the United Kingdom as a retired person of
independent means, or
(vi) paragraph 287 and the applicant has had, as at

the day on which the application is made,
continuous leave to enter or remain in the United
Kingdom for at least 15 years under paragraph 281
or paragraph 284,
or
(vii) paragraph 295G and the applicant has had, as
at the day on which the application is made,
continuous leave to enter or remain in the United
Kingdom for at least 15 years under paragraph 295B
or paragraph 295D, or
(viii) paragraph 298 and the applicant has had, as at
the day on which the application is made,
continuous leave to enter or remain in the United
Kingdom for at least 15 years under paragraph 302
or Appendix FM or paragraph 319R or paragraph
319X and Appendix Child joining a Non-Parent
Relative (Protection), or
(ix) paragraph 319E, a dependent partner under
Appendix Skilled Worker, Appendix Global Talent,
Appendix Innovator Founder, Appendix T2 Minister
of Religion, or Appendix T2 Sportsperson and the
applicant has had, as at the day on which the
application is made, continuous leave to enter or
remain in the United Kingdom for at least 15 years
as the partner of a relevant points based system
migrant; or
(x) paragraph 319J, a dependent child under
Appendix Skilled Worker, Appendix Global Talent,
Appendix Innovator, Appendix T2 Minister of
Religion, or Appendix T2 Sportsperson and the
applicant has had, as at the day on which the
application is made, continuous leave to enter or
remain in the United Kingdom for at least 15 years
as the child of a relevant points based system
migrant; or
(xi) section E-ILRP of Appendix FM and the
applicant has had, as at the day on which the
application is made, continuous leave to enter or
remain in the United Kingdom for at least 15 years
on the day on which the application is made as a
partner (except where leave is as a fiancé or
proposed civil partner) under section D-LTRP of
Appendix FM; or
(xii) section E-ILRPT of Appendix FM and the

applicant has had, as at the day on which the
application is made, continuous leave to enter or
remain in the United Kingdom for at least 15 years
on the day on which the application is made as a
parent under section D-ILRPT of Appendix FM, and
(xiii) DELETED.
(xiv) DELETED.
(b)(i) the applicant has provided specified documentary
evidence of an English language speaking and listening
qualification at A2 CEFR or ESOL entry level 2 or
Scottish Credit and Qualification Framework level 3; or
(ii) where paragraph 39C(c) of these Rules applies,
the on-line verification system operated by an
approved English language test provider, as
published on the UK Visas and Immigration pages of
Gov.uk, confirms that the applicant has passed an
English language test in speaking and listening, at a
minimum level A2 of the Common European
Framework of Reference for Languages, which is
approved by the Secretary of State, and taken at a
test centre approved by the Secretary of State as a
Secure English Language Test Centre no more than
two years before the date of application.
and
(c) Where the date of application is before 26 March
2027, the applicant has provided specified
documentary evidence from a qualified English
language teacher that the applicant has made
efforts to learn English but does not yet have
sufficient knowledge of the English language to pass
a qualification at B1 CEFR; or
(ca) Where the date of application is on or after 26
March 2027, the applicant has provided specified
documentary evidence from a qualified English
language teacher that the applicant has made
efforts to learn English but does not yet have
sufficient knowledge of the English language to pass
a qualification at B2 CEFR.
and
(d) the applicant is not a national or a citizen of one
of the following countries:
Antigua and Barbuda

Australia
The Bahamas
Barbados
Belize
The British Overseas Territories
Canada
Dominica
Grenada
Guyana
Jamaica
New Zealand
St Kitts and Nevis
St Lucia
St Vincent and the Grenadines
Trinidad and Tobago
USA
Malta
3.3 Where paragraph 39C(c) of these Rules applies,
subject to paragraph 3.2 of this Appendix, an applicant
demonstrates sufficient knowledge of the English
language and about life in the UK where:
(i) in cases where the applicant failed to satisfy
paragraph 2.2 of this Appendix, the on-line
verification system operated by an approved English
language test provider, as published on the UK
Visas and Immigration pages of Gov.uk, confirms
that the applicant has passed an English language
test in speaking and listening, at the required level,
which is approved by the Secretary of State, and
taken at a test centre approved by the Secretary of
State as a Secure English Language Test Centre no
more than two years before the date of application.
For the purposes of this sub-paragraph, the required
level is B1 CEFR in the case of an application made
before 26 March 2027 and B2 CEFR in the case of
an application on or after 26 March 2027.
(ii) in cases where the applicant failed to satisfy
paragraph 2.3 of this Appendix, he or she has

provided specified evidence that he or she has
passed the test known as the “Life in the UK test”
administered by an educational institution or other
person approved for this purpose by the Secretary
of State under arrangements approved by the
decision-maker or
(iii) in cases where the applicant failed to satisfy
paragraphs 2.2 and 2.3 of this Appendix, the
requirements set out in sub-paragraphs (i) and (ii)
are met.

Part 4 - specified documents
4.1 Where these Rules require an applicant to
demonstrate sufficient knowledge of the English
language and of life in the United Kingdom, the
applicant must supply the documents or information
specified in paragraphs 4.6 to 4.14 below.
4.2 The decision maker will only consider evidence
submitted after the date on which an application is
made where the circumstances in paragraph 39(C)(c) of
these Rules or paragraphs 4.3 or .4.6 of the Appendix
apply.
4.3 Where an applicant has submitted:
(i) a document in the wrong format (for example, if a
letter is not on letterhead paper as specified); or
(ii) DELETED
(iii) a document which does not contain all of the
specified information, or
(iv) fails to submit a specified document,
the decision-maker may contact the applicant or his
or her representative (in writing or otherwise), and
request the document or the correct version of the
document. The document must be received by the
Home Office at the address specified in the request
within such timescale (which will not be
unreasonable) as is specified.
4.4 A decision-maker may decide not to request a
document under paragraph 4.3 where he or she does
not anticipate that the supply of that document will lead

to a grant of leave to enter or remain in the United
Kingdom because the application may be refused for
other reasons.
4.5 Without prejudice to the decision maker’s discretion
under paragraph 4.2 and also his or her right in all
cases to request the original or specified document and
refuse an application in circumstances in which they are
not provided, where an applicant submits a specified
document:
(i) in the wrong format, or
(ii) DELETED
(iii) which does not contain all of the specified
information but the missing information is verifiable
from,
(aa) other documents submitted with the
application,
(bb) the website of the organisation which issued
the document,
or
(cc) the website of the appropriate regulatory
body;
the application for leave to enter or remain in the
United Kingdom may be granted exceptionally
providing the decision-maker is satisfied that the
specified documents are genuine and that the
applicant meets all the other requirements.
4.6 Where the decision-maker is satisfied that there is a
valid reason why a document has not been and cannot
be supplied, (for example, because the document has
been permanently lost or destroyed), he or she may
waive the requirement for the document to be provided
or may instead request alternative or additional
evidence (which may include confirmation of evidence
from the organisation which issued the original
document).
4.7 The information specified for the purposes of
paragraph 2.2(c) of this Appendix is the unique
reference number assigned by the provider to the
English language test taken by the applicant.
4.8 Subject to paragraphs 4.9 and 4.10 the

documentary evidence specified for the purposes of
paragraph 2.2 of this Appendix as showing that a
person is a national or a citizen of one of the countries
listed in paragraph 2.2 is a valid passport or travel
document which satisfactorily establishes the
applicant’s nationality.
4.9 If the applicant cannot provide their passport or
travel document other evidence of nationality of the type
described in paragraph 4.10 may exceptionally be
supplied in the following circumstances (the reason for
which must be indicated by the applicant on their
application form), where:
(a) the applicant’s passport has been lost or stolen,
or
(b) the applicant’s passport has expired and has
been returned to the relevant authorities, or
(c) the applicant’s passport is with another part of
the Home Office.
4.10 Where paragraph 4.9 applies, the alternative
evidence specified for the purposes of establishing the
applicant’s nationality is:
(a) a valid national identity document; or
(b) a letter from the applicant’s Home Government
or Embassy confirming the applicant’s full name,
date of birth and nationality.
4.10A The evidence specified for the purposes of
paragraph 2.2(a)(iii)(1) is:
(a) a certificate issued by the relevant institution
confirming the award of the academic qualification
and showing:
(i) the applicant’s name,
(ii) the title of the award,
(iii) the date of the award,
(iv) the name of the awarding institution
or,
(b) where an applicant has not, at the date of
application, formally graduated or no longer has his
or her certificate and is unable to obtain a duplicate

certificate:
(i) an academic reference from the institution
awarding the academic qualification that:
(a) is on official letter headed paper,
(b) shows the applicant’s name,
(c) shows the title of the award,
(d) states when the academic qualification
was (or as the case may be, will be)
awarded,
and
(e) confirms that the institution is unable to
issue a duplicate certificate of award or (as
the case may be in respect of an applicant
who has not yet graduated) the date on
which the certificate will be issued,
or
(ii) an academic transcript that;
(a) is on official letter headed paper,
(b) shows the applicant’s name,
(c) shows the name of the academic
institution,
(d) shows the course title, and
(e) confirms the award given.
4.11. The evidence specified for the purposes of
paragraph 2.2(a)(iii)(2) to 2.2(a)(v) (academic
qualification recognised by the qualification and
language assessments provider) is:
(a) a certificate issued by the relevant institution
confirming the award of the academic qualification
and showing:
(i) the applicant’s name,
(ii) the title of the award,
(iii) the date of the award,
(iv) the name of the awarding institution, and,
(v) for paragraph 2.2(a)(iii) that the qualification
was taught in English

or,
(b) where an applicant has not, at the date of
application, formally graduated or no longer has his
or her certificate and is unable to obtain a duplicate
certificate:
(i) an academic reference from the institution
awarding the academic qualification that:
(aa) is on official letter headed paper,
(bb) shows the applicant’s name,
(cc) shows the title of the award,
(dd) confirms that the qualification was
taught in English,
(ee) states when the academic qualification
was (or as the case may be, will be)
awarded,
and
(ff) confirms that the institution is unable to
issue a duplicate certificate of award or (as
the case may be in respect of an applicant
who has not yet graduated) the date on
which the certificate will be issued.
or
(ii) an academic transcript that;
(aa) is on official letter headed paper,
(bb) shows the applicant’s name,
(cc) shows the name of the academic
institution,
(dd) shows the course title,
(ee) confirms that the qualification was
taught in English, and,
(ff) confirms the award given.
4.12 In the absence of any evidence to the contrary, a
qualification obtained in one of the following countries
will be assumed for the purposes of this Appendix to
have been taught in English: Antigua and Barbuda,
Australia, the Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, The British
Overseas Territories, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana,
Ireland, Jamaica, New Zealand, St Kitts and Nevis, St

Lucia, St Vincent and the Grenadines, Trinidad and
Tobago, the UK, the USA, or Malta.
4.13 The information or evidence specified for the
purposes of paragraph 3.2(b)(i) (evidence of English
language speaking and listening) is:
(a) the unique reference number assigned by the
provider to the English language test taken by the
applicant; or
(b) a certificate or other document issued by an
awarding organisation that is recognised either by
Ofqual, the Welsh Government, or CCEA that:
(i) is issued in England, Wales or Northern
Ireland in respect of a qualification listed as an
ESOL qualification in the OFQUAL Register of
Regulated Qualifications, and
(ii) shows that the level of speaking and listening
skills attained by the applicant met ESOL entry
level 2; or
(c) a certificate that:
(i) is issued in Scotland in respect of a National
Qualification in English for Speakers of Other
Languages awarded by the Scottish
Qualifications Authority, and
(ii) shows that the level of speaking and listening
skills attained by the applicant met Scottish
Credit and Qualifications Framework level 3.”
4.13ZA The information or evidence specified for the
purposes of requesting an exception under Paragraph
3.1(c) of this appendix is to be provided on a copy of the
form published on GOV.UK for this purpose which must
be completed by a professional who is either:
(a) the applicant’s GP or a GP based in the practice
with which the applicant is normally registered; or
(b) a General Medical Council (GMC) registered
consultant
who has met with the applicant in person, assessed
their ability to fulfil the requirements set out in this
appendix, and supports their request for an exception
from either or both elements of KOLL on the basis that

they have a condition which would prevent them from
satisfying the requirements for the foreseeable future.
4.13A The information specified for the purposes of
paragraph 3.2(b)(ii) (evidence of English language
speaking and listening) is the unique reference number
assigned by the provider to the English language test
taken by the applicant.
4.14 a) The evidence specified for the purposes of
paragraph 3,2(c) (evidence from qualified English
teacher) is a letter from the teacher which is signed by
him or her and dated no more than 3 months before the
date on which the application for indefinite leave to
remain is made and which includes the following
information:
(i) the applicant’s name,
(ii) confirmation that the applicant has attended an
English language class taught by that teacher for at
least 75 guided learning hours and which was taught
during the period of 12 months immediately
preceding the date on which the application for
indefinite leave to remain was made,
(iii) confirmation that the teacher has assessed that
the speaking and listening level attained by the
applicant is not at the level specified in 3.2(c) or 3.2
(ca) as appropriate,
(iv) confirmation that the applicant is considered
unlikely to attain the level specified in 3.2(c) or
3.2(ca) as appropriate through further study
(v) confirmation of the teacher’s qualifications as an
English language teacher within the meaning of this
Appendix.
(b) For the purposes of paragraph (a)(ii) “guided
learning hours” means the time during which a person is
taught or given instruction and does not include any
time spent on unsupervised preparation or study.
4.15 The information specified for the purposes of
paragraph 2.3 of this Appendix is a unique reference
number issued to the applicant by the provider of the
“Life in the UK” test.
4.16 The information specified for the purposes of

paragraph 3.3(i) of this Appendix (evidence of English
language speaking and listening) is the unique
reference number assigned by the provider to the
English language test taken by the applicant.
4.17 The evidence specified for the purposes of
paragraph 3.3(ii) of this Appendix (evidence of
knowledge about life in the UK) is the same as that
specified at paragraph 4.15(a) of this Appendix.

Part 5 - interpretation
5.1 For the purposes of this Appendix “decision maker”
means an Entry Clearance Officer or the Secretary of
State.
5.2 For the purposes of this Appendix, “qualified English
language teacher” means a person who holds a
qualification in teaching English as a foreign language
or in teaching English to speakers of other languages
which was awarded by an awarding organisation
regulated by OFQUAL or the Welsh Government or the
CCEA or the Scottish Qualification Authority.

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

© Crown copyright

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Long Residence - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:01 pm

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix Long Residence
The Long Residence route is for a person
who has lived in the UK lawfully and
continuously for 10 years or more. The
person can count time with permission on
most routes towards the 10 year qualifying
period.
There is no provision for dependents of a person on the
Long Residence route to apply on this route.
A person may apply for immediate settlement if they
meet all the requirements for settlement or may apply
for temporary permission to stay if they meet the
suitability and qualifying period and continuous
residence requirements but do not meet the English
language or Knowledge of life in the UK requirements.
A person who has lived in the UK for a long period but
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-long-residence

Page 1 of 10

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Long Residence - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:01 pm

has not been lawfully and continuously resident for 10
years may be eligible to apply under Appendix Private
Life.

Permission to stay on the Long
Residence route
Validity requirements for permission to stay on the
Long Residence route
LR 1.1. A person applying for permission to stay on the
Long Residence route must apply online on the gov.uk
website on the specified form “Application to extend
your stay in the UK on the basis of long residence”.
LR 1.2. An application for permission to stay on the
Long Residence route must meet all the following
requirements:
(a) any fee and Immigration Health Charge must
have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other document which satisfactorily establishes their
identity and nationality.
LR 1.3. The applicant must be in the UK on the date of
application.
LR 1.4. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for permission to stay on the Long
Residence route may be rejected as invalid and not
considered.
Suitability requirements for permission to stay on
the Long Residence route
LR 2.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under Part
Suitability.
LR 2.2. The applicant must not be:
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-long-residence

Page 2 of 10

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Long Residence - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:01 pm

(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded (although it will not count towards the
qualifying period); or
(b) on immigration bail.
Eligibility requirements for permission to stay on
the Long Residence route
Qualifying period requirement for permission to
stay on the Long Residence route
LR 3.1. The applicant must have spent a qualifying
period of 10 years lawfully in the UK, for the entirety of
which one or more of the following applied:
(a) the applicant had permission, except permission
under Appendix Ukraine Scheme, or permission as
a Visitor, Short-term Student (English language) or
Seasonal Worker (or under any of their predecessor
routes); or
(b) the applicant was exempt from immigration
control; or
(c) the applicant was in the UK as an EEA national,
or the family member of an EEA national, exercising
a right to reside under the Immigration (European
Economic Area) Regulations 2016 prior to 11pm on
31 December 2020 (and until 30 June 2021 or the
final determination of an application under Appendix
EU made by them by that date); or
(d) a period as a British citizen, except where
citizenship has subsequently been deprived.
LR 3.2. The following periods will not count towards the
qualifying period for Long Residence:
(a) time spent on immigration bail, temporary
admission or temporary release; and
(b) any period of overstaying between periods of
permission before 24 November 2016, even if a
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-long-residence

Page 3 of 10

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Long Residence - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:01 pm

further application was made within 28 days of the
expiry of the previous permission; and
(c) any period of overstaying between periods of
permission on or after 24 November 2016 even if the
Exceptions for overstayers section of Part Suitability
applies to that period of overstaying; and
(d) any current period of overstaying where the
Exceptions for overstayers section of Part Suitability
applies.
Continuous residence requirement for permission
to stay on the Long Residence route
LR 4.1. The applicant must have met the continuous
residence requirement set out in Appendix Continuous
Residence for the entirety of the qualifying period.

Transitional arrangements for the Long
Residence route
LR 5.1. A person granted an extension of stay on the
basis of long residence following an application made
on or before 8 July 2012 will remain subject to the rules
in force on 8 July 2012.

Decision on an application for
permission to stay on the Long
Residence route
LR 6.1. If the decision maker is satisfied the suitability
and eligibility requirements for permission to stay on the
Long Residence route are met, the application will be
granted.
LR 6.2. If the decision maker is not satisfied the
requirements for permission to stay on the Long
Residence route are met, the applicant will be
considered under the leave to remain rules for a partner,
parent or child under Appendix FM (family life) and the
permission to stay requirements of Appendix Private
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-long-residence

Page 4 of 10

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Long Residence - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:01 pm

Life, and where those requirements are met, the
applicant will be granted leave to remain under the
relevant rules in Appendix FM (family life) or granted
permission to stay under Appendix Private Life.
LR 6.3. Subject to LR 6.2, if the decision maker is not
satisfied that the applicant meets the suitability and
eligibility requirements for permission to stay on the
Long Residence route, the application will be refused.

Period of grant for permission to stay on
the Long Residence route
LR 7.1. The applicant will be granted permission to stay
for a period of 24 months.
Conditions of grant for permission to stay on the
Long Residence route
LR 8.1. The grant will be subject to the following
conditions:
(a) no access to public funds; and
(b) work (including self-employment and voluntary
work) is permitted; and
(c) study is permitted, subject to the Academic
Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS) condition in
Appendix ATAS.

Settlement on the Long Residence route
Validity requirements for settlement on the Long
Residence route
LR 9.1. A person applying for settlement on the Long
Residence route must apply online on the gov.uk
website on the specified form “Apply to settle in the UK
– long residence”.
LR 9.2. An application for settlement on the Long
Residence route must meet all the following
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-long-residence

Page 5 of 10

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Long Residence - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:01 pm

requirements:
(a) any fee must have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other document which satisfactorily establishes their
identity and nationality.
LR 9.3. The applicant must be in the UK on the date of
application.
LR 9.4. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for settlement on the Long
Residence route may be rejected as invalid and not
considered.
Suitability requirements for settlement on the Long
Residence route
LR 10.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
LR 10.2. The applicant must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded (although it will not count towards the
qualifying period); or
(b) on immigration bail.
Eligibility requirements for settlement on the Long
Residence route
Qualifying period requirement for settlement on the
Long Residence route
LR 11.1. The applicant must have spent a qualifying
period of 10 years lawfully in the UK, for the entirety of
which one or more of the following applied:
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-long-residence

Page 6 of 10

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Long Residence - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:01 pm

(a) the applicant had permission, except permission
under Appendix Ukraine Scheme, or permission as
a Visitor, Short-term Student (English language) or
Seasonal Worker (or under any of their predecessor
routes); or
(b) the applicant was exempt from immigration
control; or
(c) the applicant was in the UK as an EEA national,
or the family member of an EEA national, exercising
a right to reside under the Immigration (European
Economic Area) Regulations 2016 prior to 11pm on
31 December 2020 (and until 30 June 2021 or the
final determination of an application under Appendix
EU made by them by that date); or
(d) a period as a British citizen, except where
citizenship has subsequently been deprived.
LR 11.2. The following periods will not count towards the
qualifying period for Long Residence:
(a) time spent on immigration bail, temporary
admission or temporary release; and
(b) any period of overstaying between periods of
permission before 24 November 2016 even if a
further application was made within 28 days of the
expiry of the previous permission; and
(c) any period of overstaying between periods of
permission on or after 24 November 2016 even if the
Exceptions for overstayers section of Part Suitability
applies to that period of overstaying; and
(d) any current period of overstaying where the
Exceptions for overstayers section of Part Suitability
applies.
LR 11.3. Subject to LR 11.4, the applicant must have
had permission on their current immigration route for at
least 12 months on the date of application, or have been
exempt from immigration control in the 12 months
immediately before the date of application.
LR 11.4. If the applicant’s current permission was
granted before 11 April 2024, LR 11.3. does not apply.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-long-residence

Page 7 of 10

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Long Residence - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:01 pm

Continuous residence requirement for settlement on
the Long Residence route
LR 12.1. The applicant must have met the continuous
residence requirement set out in Appendix Continuous
Residence for the entirety of the qualifying period.
English Language requirement for settlement on the
Long Residence route
LR 13.1. Unless an exemption applies, the applicant
must:
(a) Where the date of application is before 26 March
2027, the applicant must, unless an exemption
applies, show English language ability on the
Common European Framework of Reference for
Languages in speaking and listening to at least level
B1; or
(b) Where the date of application is on or after 26
March 2027, the applicant must, unless an
exemption applies, show English language ability on
the Common European Framework of Reference for
Languages in speaking and listening to at least level
B2.
LR 13.2. The applicant must show they meet the
English language requirement, or that an exemption
applies, as set out in Appendix English Language.
Knowledge of life in the UK requirement for
settlement on the Long Residence route
LR 14.1. Unless an exemption applies, the applicant
must meet the Knowledge of life in the UK requirement
as set out in Appendix KOL UK.
LR 14.2. The applicant must show they meet the
Knowledge of life in the UK requirement, or that they are
exempt, as set out in Appendix KOL UK.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-long-residence

Page 8 of 10

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Long Residence - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:01 pm

Decision on an application for
settlement on the Long Residence route
LR 15.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that the
suitability and eligibility requirements for settlement on
the Long Residence route are met, the applicant will be
granted settlement.
LR 15.2. If the decision maker is not satisfied the
suitability and eligibility requirements for settlement on
the Long Residence route are met, but thinks the
applicant may meet requirements for permission to stay
on the Long Residence route or one of the following
routes, the application will be varied by the Secretary of
State to an application for permission to stay:
(a) as a partner, parent or child under Appendix FM
(family life); or
(b) under Appendix Private Life.
LR 15.3. If the application is varied as set out in LR
15.2, the Secretary of State will contact the applicant
informing them of this variation and:
(a) no additional application fee for the application
for permission to stay will be required and the
settlement application fee will not be refunded; and
(b) the applicant must pay any required Immigration
Health Charge.
LR 15.4. If LR 15.2. applies and the applicant does not
pay the required Immigration Health Charge, or does
not request a waiver for the Immigration Health Charge,
which is then granted, the application for permission to
stay will be rejected as invalid and the applicant will not
be refunded the fee paid for the settlement application.
LR 15.5. If the application is varied to an application for
permission to stay and the decision maker is satisfied
the suitability and eligibility requirements for permission
to stay on the Long Residence route are met, the
applicant will be granted permission to stay on the Long
Residence route.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-long-residence

Page 9 of 10

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Long Residence - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:01 pm

LR 15.6. If the decision maker is not satisfied the
requirements for permission to stay on the Long
Residence route are met, the applicant will be
considered under the leave to remain rules for a partner,
parent or child under Appendix FM (family life) and the
permission to stay requirements of Appendix Private
Life, and where the relevant requirements are met, the
applicant will be granted under those rules.
LR 15.7. If the decision maker is not satisfied the
requirements for settlement or permission to stay on the
Long Residence route are met, and the applicant is not
granted permission to stay under Appendix FM (family
life) or Appendix Private Life, the applicant will be
refused settlement on the Long Residence route.

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-long-residence

© Crown copyright

Page 10 of 10

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration rules Appendix O: approved
English language tests
List of English language tests that have
been approved by the Home Office for
English language requirements for limited
leave to enter or remain under the
Immigration Rules.
DELETED

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

© Crown copyright

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Overseas Domestic Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:47 am

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix Overseas
Domestic Worker
Overseas Domestic Worker
This route is for an Overseas Domestic Worker who is
seeking to come to the UK to work for up to a maximum
of 6 months as a domestic worker with their current
employer.
Dependants are not permitted on this route.

Validity requirements for an Overseas
Domestic Worker
ODW 1.1. A person applying for entry clearance as an
Overseas Domestic Worker must apply on the gov.uk
website on the Domestic worker in a private household
visa form.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-overseas-domestic-worker

Page 1 of 6

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Overseas Domestic Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:47 am

ODW 1.2. An application for entry clearance on the
Overseas Domestic Worker route must meet all the
following requirements:
(a) the applicant must be outside the UK on the date
of application; and
(b) any fee must have been paid; and
(c) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(d) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other travel document which satisfactorily
establishes their identity and nationality.
ODW 1.3. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for an Overseas Domestic Worker
may be rejected as invalid and not considered.

Suitability requirements for an Overseas
Domestic Worker
ODW 2.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.

Eligibility requirements for an Overseas
Domestic Worker
Entry requirement for an Overseas Domestic Worker
ODW 3.1. A person seeking to come to the UK as an
Overseas Domestic Worker must apply for and obtain
entry clearance as an Overseas Domestic Worker
before they arrive in the UK.
Age requirement for an Overseas Domestic Worker
ODW 4.1. The applicant must be aged 19 or over on the
date of application.
Employment requirement for an Overseas Domestic
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-overseas-domestic-worker

Page 2 of 6

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Overseas Domestic Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:47 am

Worker
ODW 5.1. A person applying for entry clearance as an
Overseas Domestic Worker must have been employed
as a domestic worker and living with the employer or in
a property that the employer uses as a home for
themselves on a regular basis, for 12 months or more
immediately before the date of application.
ODW 5.2. The applicant must provide a letter from their
employer confirming all of the following:
(a)their employment as a domestic worker; and
(b)that it meets the requirements set out in ODW
5.1; and
(c)that the employment is ongoing.
ODW 5.3. The applicant must show they meet the
employment requirement by providing one or more of
the following:
(a) pay slips or bank statements showing payment of
salary; or
(b) confirmation of tax paid; or
(c) confirmation of health insurance paid; or
(d) a contract of employment; or
(e) a work visa, residence permit or equivalent
passport endorsement from the country in which the
domestic worker has been employed by the
employer; or
(f) a visa or equivalent passport endorsement to
confirm the applicant has travelled with their
employer.
ODW 5.4. The applicant must have agreed in writing,
the terms and conditions of their employment in the UK
and must provide evidence, in the form set out in
Appendix Domestic Worker Statement.
ODW 5.5 The decision maker must be satisfied that the
employer genuinely intends to pay the applicant at least
the National Minimum Wage throughout their
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-overseas-domestic-worker

Page 3 of 6

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Overseas Domestic Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:47 am

employment in the UK.
ODW 5.6. The decision maker must be satisfied that the
applicant intends to work for the employer whilst the
employer is in the UK and intends to travel in the
company of one of the following:
(a) their British employer, or that employer’s British
spouse, civil partner or child under the age of 18,
where the employer’s usual place of residence is
outside the UK and where those individuals do not
intend to remain in the UK beyond six months; or
(b) a British employer’s foreign national spouse, civil
partner or child under the age of 18, where those
individuals do not intend to remain in the UK beyond
six months; or
(c) a foreign national employer or the employer’s
spouse, civil partner or child under the age of 18,
where those individuals are seeking, or have been
granted, permission under Appendix V: Visitor,
except where that permission is to undertake
activities listed in Appendix V: Visitor at V 9.
ODW 5.7. The decision maker must be satisfied of all of
the following:
(a)that the applicant will leave the UK at the end of
six months in the UK or at the same time as their
employer, whichever is the earlier; and
(b)will not live for extended periods in the UK
through frequent or successive visits; and
(c)will not make the UK their main home.
Financial requirement for an Overseas Domestic
Worker
ODW 6.1. The decision maker must be satisfied that the
applicant can and will adequately maintain and
accommodate themselves without recourse to public
funds.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-overseas-domestic-worker

Page 4 of 6

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Overseas Domestic Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:47 am

Decision on an application as an
Overseas Domestic Worker
ODW 7.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all the
suitability and eligibility requirements for an Overseas
Domestic Worker are met, the application will be
granted, otherwise the application will be refused.
ODW 7.2. If the application is refused, the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.

Period of grant for an Overseas
Domestic Worker
ODW 8.1. The applicant will be granted entry clearance
for a period of 6 months.
Conditions of grant for an Overseas Domestic
Worker
ODW 8.2. The grant will be subject to all the following
conditions:
(a) no access to public funds; and
(b) no work except as an Overseas Domestic
Worker or a domestic worker in a private household.
ODW 8.3. The applicant is permitted to change
employer, without notifying the Home Office, within the
validity of their permission as an Overseas Domestic
Worker.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-overseas-domestic-worker

Page 5 of 6

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Overseas Domestic Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-overseas-domestic-worker

07/05/2026, 11:47 am

© Crown copyright

Page 6 of 6

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Parent of a Child Student - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:35 am

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix Parent of a
Child Student
Parent of a Child Student
This route is for a Parent of a Child Student to come to
or stay in the UK to care for their child, where the child
is in the UK under Appendix Child Student, is aged
between 4 and 11 and is attending an independent feepaying school (which must not be a state school or
academy).
Only one of the child’s parents can be in the UK under
this route.

Validity requirements for the Parent of a
Child Student
PC 1.1. A person applying for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a Parent of a Child Student must
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-parent-of-a-child-student

Page 1 of 6

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Parent of a Child Student - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:35 am

apply online on the gov.uk website on the specified form
as follows:
Location of
applicant

Specified form

Outside the UK

Parent of a Child Student

Inside the UK

Application to extend stay in the
UK: FLR(IR)

PC 1.2. An application for entry clearance or permission
to stay as a Parent of a Child Student must meet all the
following requirements:
(a) any fee and Immigration Health Charge must
have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other travel document which satisfactorily
establishes their identity and nationality.
PC 1.3. The applicant must be aged 18 or over on the
date of application.
PC 1.4. If applying for permission to stay, the applicant
must be in the UK on the date of application.
PC 1.4A. If applying for permission to stay, the applicant
must not have, or have last been granted, permission:
(a) as a Visitor; or
(b) as a Short-term Student; or
(c) outside the Immigration Rules.
PC 1.5. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for the Parent of a Child Student
may be rejected as invalid and not considered.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-parent-of-a-child-student

Page 2 of 6

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Parent of a Child Student - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:35 am

Suitability requirements for the Parent of
a Child Student
PC 2.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under Part
Suitability.
PC 2.2. If applying for permission to stay the applicant
must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.

Eligibility requirements for Parent of a
Child Student
Entry requirements for Parent of a Child Student
PC 3.1. A person seeking to come to the UK as a Parent
of a Child Student must apply for and obtain entry
clearance as a Parent of a Child Student before they
arrive in the UK.
PC 3.2. A person applying for entry clearance as the
Parent of a Child Student must, if Appendix
Tuberculosis applies, provide a valid medical certificate
confirming that they have undergone screening for
active pulmonary tuberculosis and that this tuberculosis
is not present in them.
Relationship requirement for Parent of a Child
Student
PC 4.1. The applicant must be the parent of a child who
has, or is at the same time applying for, entry clearance
or permission to stay as a Child Student.
PC 4.2. The Child Student’s other parent must not be in
the UK or seeking to come to the UK.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-parent-of-a-child-student

Page 3 of 6

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Parent of a Child Student - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:35 am

Child Student requirements for Parent of a Child
Student
PC 5.1. The Child Student must be aged between 4 and
11 years on the date of application and have, or at the
same time be applying for, entry clearance or
permission to stay, under Appendix Child Student.
Care requirement for Parent of a Child Student
PC 6.1. The applicant must intend to live with the Child
Student during the applicant’s stay in the UK.
Financial requirement for Parent of a Child Student
PC 7.1. If the applicant is applying for permission to stay
and has been in the UK with permission for 12 months
or longer on the date of application, they will meet the
financial requirement and do not need to show funds.
PC 7.2. If both the applicant and the Child Student are
applying at the same time for either entry clearance, or
permission to stay where they have both lived in the UK
for less than 12 months on the date of application, the
applicant will meet the financial requirement if the Child
Student shows the level of funds required under CS
10.2.
PC 7.3. If neither PC 7.1 or PC 7.2 apply the applicant
must:
(a) have funds of £1,560 for each month of their
intended stay in the UK up to a maximum of 9
months; and
(b) have funds of £625 for each month of their
intended stay up to a maximum of 9 months for any
child other than the Child Student who will be under
their care in the UK.
PC 7.4. The applicant must not intend to make the UK
their main home and must have sufficient funds to
maintain their main home outside the UK, in addition to
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-parent-of-a-child-student

Page 4 of 6

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Parent of a Child Student - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:35 am

any other funds required by these rules.
PC 7.5. The applicant or their partner must show that
they have held the required level of funds for a 28-day
period and as specified in Appendix Finance.
PC 7.6. The applicant may rely on funds held in the
account of a partner who is outside the UK in addition to
the account holders listed in FIN 5.1(a).

Decision on an application as a Parent
of a Child Student
PC 8.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all the
suitability and eligibility requirements are met for the
Parent of a Child Student the application will be granted,
otherwise, the application will be refused.
PC 8.2. If the application is refused the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.
Period of grant for Parent of a Child Student
PC 9.1. The Parent of a Child Student will be granted
permission for a period which ends at the same time as
the Child Student’s permission, or on the date the Child
Student reaches the age of 12 years, whichever is
sooner.
Conditions of grant for Parent of a Child Student
PC 9.2. The grant will be subject to all the following
conditions:
(a) no access to public funds; and
(b) no work; and
(c) no study.
(d) DELETED.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-parent-of-a-child-student

Page 5 of 6

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Parent of a Child Student - Guidance - GOV.UK

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-parent-of-a-child-student

07/05/2026, 11:35 am

© Crown copyright

Page 6 of 6

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Private Life - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:04 pm

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix Private Life
The Private Life route is for a person
seeking permission to stay in the UK on the
basis they have developed a Private Life in
the UK.
A child born in the UK to a person who has permission
on the Private Life route can apply for permission for the
same duration as their parent.
The Private Life route is a route to settlement.
A child born in the UK who has been continuously
resident for 7 years may qualify for immediate
settlement on this route.
Alternative routes may be available to those considering
the Private Life route. For example, a person may be
able to qualify for immediate settlement on the basis of
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-private-life

Page 1 of 24

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Private Life - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:04 pm

10 years Long Residence in the UK, under Appendix
Long Residence of these rules.

Validity requirements for the Private Life
route
PL 1.1. A person applying for permission to stay on the
Private Life route must apply online on the gov.uk
website on the specified form: “Application to remain in
the UK on the basis of family life or private life”.
PL 1.2. An application for permission to stay on the
Private Life route must meet all the following validity
requirements:
(a) any fee and Immigration Health Charge must
have been paid (unless the applicant has been
granted a fee waiver in whole or in part); and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other document which satisfactorily establishes their
identity and nationality; and
(d) the applicant must be in the UK on the date of
application.
PL 1.3. If a private life claim is made under Article 8 of
the Human Rights Convention and it is made:
(a) at the same time as a protection claim or further
submission in person after a protection claim has
been refused; or
(b) when the applicant is in detention (and the claim
is submitted to a prison officer, custody officer or a
member of Home Office staff at the place of
detention); or
(c) during an appeal (subject to the consent of the
Secretary of State where applicable), the
requirements at PL 1.1. and at PL 1.2. (a) and (c)
will be waived.
PL 1.4. An application which does not meet all the
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-private-life

Page 2 of 24

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Private Life - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:04 pm

validity requirements for the Private Life route may be
rejected as invalid and not considered.

Suitability requirements on the Private
Life route
PL 2.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under Part
Suitability.
PL 2.2. DELETED.

Eligibility requirements on the Private
Life route
Residence requirements for a child on the Private
Life route
PL 3.1. Where the applicant is aged under 18 at the
date of application the following requirements must be
met:
(a) the applicant must have been continuously
resident in the UK for at least 7 years; and
(b) the decision maker must be satisfied that it would
not be reasonable to expect the applicant to leave
the UK.

Residence requirements for a young
adult on the Private Life route (where the
applicant arrived in the UK as a child)
PL 4.1. Where the applicant is aged 18 or over and
aged under 25 at the date of application and arrived in
the UK before the age of 18, the applicant must have
spent at least half their life continuously resident in the
UK.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-private-life

Page 3 of 24

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Private Life - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:04 pm

Residence requirements for an adult on
the Private Life route (including a young
adult who does not qualify under PL
4.1.)
PL 5.1. Where the applicant is aged 18 or over on the
date of application:
(a) the applicant must have been continuously
resident in the UK for more than 20 years; or
(b) where the applicant has not been continuously
resident in the UK for more than 20 years, the
decision maker must be satisfied there would be
very significant obstacles to the applicant’s
integration into the country where they would have
to live if required to leave the UK.

Exclusion of certain asylum seekers
PL 6.1. An applicant who has made a protection or
asylum claim which has been declared inadmissible
under Part 11 of these rules before 28 June 2022, or
under section 80B and 80C of the Nationality,
Immigration and Asylum Act 2002, and which continues
to be treated as inadmissible, cannot meet the
requirement at PL 5.1(b).

Continuous Residence requirements on
the Private Life route
PL 7.1. The period of continuous residence at PL 3.1,
PL 4.1. or PL 5.1. may include time spent in the UK with
or without permission.
PL 7.2. The period of continuous residence at PL 3.1,
PL 4.1. or PL 5.1. does not include any period of
imprisonment or detention where the applicant was
convicted of an offence and sentenced to a period of
imprisonment or was directed to be detained in an
institution other than a prison.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-private-life

Page 4 of 24

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Private Life - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:04 pm

PL 7.3. The period of continuous residence at PL 3.1,
PL 4.1. or PL 5.1 is broken (i.e. is no longer continuous)
if any of the following apply:
(a) the applicant has been absent from the UK for
more than 6 months at any one time; or
(b) the applicant has spent a total of 550 days or
more absent from the UK during the period of
continuous residence at PL 3.1, PL 4.1 or PL 5.1; or
(c) the applicant has been removed, deported or has
left the UK having had an application for permission
to enter or stay in the UK refused; or
(d) the applicant left the UK with no reasonable
expectation at the time of leaving that they would
lawfully be able to return.

Eligibility requirement for Private Life
route relying on Article 8 of the Human
Rights Convention
PL 8.1. If the applicant does not meet the suitability
requirements (subject to PL 8.2), or does not meet any
of the eligibility requirements in PL 3.1., PL 4.1. or PL
5.1. the decision maker must be satisfied that refusal of
permission to stay would not breach Article 8 of the
Human Rights Convention on the basis of private life.
PL 8.2. Where PL 8.1. applies and the applicant falls for
refusal under SUI 2.1. SUI 3.1., SUI 4.1., or SUI 5.1. of
Part Suitability the application on the Private Life route
will be refused.

Decision on an application on the
Private Life route
PL 9.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all the
suitability requirements are met and the eligibility
requirements at PL 3.1, PL 4.1, PL 5.1 or PL.8.1. are
met then, unless paragraph PL 8.2. applies, the
applicant will be granted permission to stay on the
Private Life route, otherwise the application will be
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-private-life

Page 5 of 24

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Private Life - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:04 pm

refused.

Period of grant for permission to stay on
the Private Life route
PL 10.1. If the applicant is under 18 at the date of
application (or was under 18 when first granted
permission on the private life route), they will be granted
permission to stay for either:
(a) 30 months, where the applicant has applied for a
period of 30 months; or
(b) 60 months, where the applicant has applied for a
period of 60 months.
PL 10.2. If the applicant is a young adult who has spent
half their life in the UK at the date of application (or was
previously granted as a young adult on the private life
route), they will be granted permission to stay for either:
(a) 30 months, where the applicant has applied for a
period of 30 months; or
(b) 60 months, where the applicant has applied for a
period of 60 months.
PL 10.3. In all other cases the applicant will be granted
30 months permission to stay.
PL 10.4. Where a person is seeking to extend their
permission to stay, any remaining period of permission
at the date of application will be added to their next
grant of permission, up to a maximum of 28 days.

Conditions of grant for the Private Life
route
PL 10.5. The grant of permission will be subject to the
following conditions:
(a) work (including self-employment and voluntary
work) permitted; and
(b) study is permitted, subject to the ATAS condition
in Appendix ATAS; and
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-private-life

Page 6 of 24

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Private Life - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:04 pm

(c) if the decision maker is satisfied that:
(i) the applicant is destitute, as defined in section
95 of the Immigration and Asylum Act 1999, or is
at risk of imminent destitution; or
(ii) there are reasons relating to the welfare of a
relevant child which outweigh the considerations
for imposing or maintaining the condition
(treating the best interests of a relevant child as
a primary consideration), or
(iii) the applicant is facing exceptional
circumstances affecting their income or
expenditure,
then the applicant will not be subject to a condition
of no access to public funds. If the decision maker is
not so satisfied, the applicant will be subject to a
condition of no access to public funds.
PL 10.6. For the purposes of PL 10.5.(c)(ii) ‘relevant
child’ means a person who:
(a) is under the age of 18 years at the date of
application; and
(b) it is clear from the information provided by the
applicant, is a child who would be affected by a
decision to impose or maintain the no access to
public funds condition.

Settlement on the Private Life route
Validity requirements for settlement on the Private
Life route
PL 11.1. A person on the Private Life route who is
applying for settlement must apply online on the gov.uk
website on the specified form as follows:
Adult
(aged 18
or over)

Settlement on the private life route

Child
(aged

Settlement as a child (including a child
aged over 18 already in the UK as a

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-private-life

Page 7 of 24

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Private Life - Guidance - GOV.UK

under 18)

07/05/2026, 12:04 pm

dependent)

PL 11.2. An application for settlement must meet all the
following requirements:
(a) any fee must have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other travel document which satisfactorily
establishes their identity and nationality; and
(d) the applicant must be in the UK on the date of
application.
PL 11.3. An applicant must have, or have last been
granted, permission on the Private Life route, unless:
(a) they are a child who was born in the UK; or
(b) they are a child who has, or last had, permission
as a dependent child (under Appendix FM or leave
outside the Immigration Rules), before 20 June 2022
and would have met the continuous residence
requirements in paragraph PL 3.1(a) at the time that
permission or leave was granted; or
(c) they are over the age of 18 and meet or met the
half-life test, and has, or last had, permission on the
basis of their family or private life (under Appendix
FM or with leave outside the Immigration Rules),
before 20 June 2022.
PL 11.4. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for settlement on the Private Life
route may be rejected as invalid and not considered.

Suitability requirements for settlement
on the Private Life route
PL 12.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
PL 12.2. DELETED.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-private-life

Page 8 of 24

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Private Life - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:04 pm

PL 12.3. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
SUI 5.3. of Part Suitability, unless the applicant has
completed a qualifying period of 10 years continuous
residence with permission as set out in PL 12.6. and
has completed 5 years continuous residence with such
permission since the end of their sentence.
PL 12.4. Where any of the following occur during the
applicant’s qualifying period for settlement, the applicant
must be refused settlement unless the applicant has
completed a continuous qualifying period of 10 years
with permission as set out in PL 12.6. and has
completed 5 years continuous residence with such
permission after the date of the first grant of permission
after the suitability ground came to the attention of the
decision maker:
(a) involvement in a sham marriage or civil
partnership (SUI 8.1. of Part Suitability); or
(b) use of false documents or information or
deception (SUI 9.1. and SUI 10.1. of Part Suitability);
or
(c) litigation debt owed to the Home Office, unless
the debt has been paid (SUI 17.1. of Part Suitability);
or
(d) debt to the NHS, unless the debt has been paid,
or the total value of outstanding charges is under
£500 (SUI 16.1. of Part Suitability); or
(e) the applicant has breached the conditions of their
permission (SUI 11.1. of Part Suitability).
PL 12.5. Unless the applicant is a child or young adult
who was granted permission to stay on the basis of
private life under paragraphs PL 3.1. or PL 4.1, if the
applicant entered the UK illegally settlement must be
refused unless the applicant has completed a qualifying
period of 10 years with permission under PL 12.6.
PL 12.6. Where an applicant must complete a qualifying
period of 10 years continuous residence (under PL 12.3.
to PL 12.5.), they must have had permission as (or as a
combination of) the following for that 10 year qualifying
period:
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-private-life

Page 9 of 24

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Private Life - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:04 pm

(a) entry clearance or permission granted as a
partner or parent under Appendix FM (except for
permission as a fiancé(e) or proposed civil partner);
or
(b) permission described in the Home Office grant
letter as “family permission as a parent” or “family
permission as a partner”; or
(c) permission on the private life route under
paragraph 276ADE or 276BE(2) before 20 June
2022 or Appendix Private Life; or
(d) entry clearance or permission as a child of a
person with limited leave as a partner or parent
under Appendix FM; or
(e) permission granted outside the rules as a
partner, a parent or child or because of private life
on the basis of Article 8 of the Human Rights
Convention.
PL 12.7. The applicant must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.

Eligibility requirements for settlement
on the Private Life route
Child born in the UK requirements for settlement on
the Private life route
PL 13.1. The applicant must have been born in the UK
and must provide a full UK birth certificate.
PL 13.2. The applicant must have lived continuously in
the UK since their birth and for at least 7 years at the
date of application.
PL 13.3. The decision maker must be satisfied that it is
not reasonable to expect the applicant to leave the UK.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-private-life

Page 10 of 24

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Private Life - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:04 pm

Qualifying period requirement for
settlement on the Private Life route
(where the applicant was not born in the
UK)
PL 14.1. An applicant who has, or last had, permission
to stay on the private life route as a child, or young adult
who met the half-life test under PL 4.1, must have lived
in the UK for a continuous qualifying period of 5 years
with permission as set out in PL 14.3 or 14.4.
PL 14.1A. A child applicant who has, or last had,
permission as a dependent child under Appendix FM or
leave outside the Immigration Rules before 20 June
2022, and would have met the private life rules at the
time they were granted that permission, must:
(a) meet the continuous residence requirements for
a child at PL 3.1(a) at the date of application or have
met the continuous residence requirements for a
child at PL 3.1(a) in a previous application; and
(b) have lived in the UK for a continuous qualifying
period of 5 years with permission as set out in PL
14.3.
PL 14.1B. The periods at PL 14.1A(a) and (b) must not
run concurrently.
PL 14.2. An applicant who is aged 18 or over at the date
of application and does not meet the requirement in PL
14.1., must either:
(a) have lived in the UK for a continuous qualifying
period of 10 years with permission set out in PL
14.3. or 14.4.; or
(b) have, or last had, permission on the basis of their
family or private life (under Appendix FM or leave
outside the Immigration Rules before 20 June 2022),
before 20 June 2022.
PL 14.2A. Where 14.2(b) applies, the applicant must
have lived in the UK for a continuous qualifying period of
5 years with permission as set out in PL 14.3, and
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-private-life

Page 11 of 24

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Private Life - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:04 pm

either:
(a) meet the half-life test at PL 4.1. at the date of
application; or
(b) have met the half-life test at PL 4.1. in a previous
application, or;
(c) have been initially granted permission as a child
(as set out in PL 14.3.) and have since turned 25
and have spent at least half their life continuously
resident in the UK.
PL 14.3. Permission on the following routes (or any
combination of those routes) counts towards the
qualifying period in PL 14.1, PL 14.2 or PL 14.2A:
(a) entry clearance or permission granted as a
partner or parent under Appendix FM (except for
permission as a fiancé(e) or proposed civil partner);
or
(b) permission described in the Home Office grant
letter as “family permission as a parent” or “family
permission as a partner”; or
(c) permission on the private life route under
paragraph 276ADE or 276BE(2) before 20 June
2022 or Appendix Private Life; or
(d) entry clearance or permission as a child of a
person with limited leave as a partner or parent
under Appendix FM; or
(e) permission granted outside the rules as a
partner, a parent or child or because of private life
on the basis of Article 8 of the Human Rights
Convention.
PL 14.4. Permission on any other route that includes
rules allowing an applicant to qualify for settlement also
counts towards the qualifying period in PL 14.1. or PL
14.2, if the applicant:
(a) did not enter the UK illegally (unless they have
permission to stay on the private life route as a child
or young adult); and
(b) has had permission either under paragraph
276ADE or 276 BE(2) before 20 June 2022 or
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-private-life

Page 12 of 24

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Private Life - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:04 pm

Appendix Private Life for at least one year at the
date of application.

Continuous Residence requirement for
settlement on the Private Life route
PL 15.1. The applicant must meet the continuous
residence requirements as set out in Appendix
Continuous Residence for the qualifying period for
settlement, unless they are a child born in the UK.
Continuous residence requirements for a child born
in the UK applying for settlement on the Private Life
route
PL 15A.1. The period of continuous residence at PL
13.2. may include time spent in the UK with or without
permission.
PL 15A.2. The period of continuous residence at PL
13.2. does not include any period during which the
applicant was serving a sentence of imprisonment or
was detained in an institution other than a prison.
PL 15A.3. The period of continuous residence at PL
13.2. is broken (i.e. is no longer continuous) if any of the
following apply:
(a) the applicant has been absent from the UK for
more than 6 months at any one time; or
(b) the applicant has spent a total of 550 days or
more absent from the UK during the period of
continuous residence at PL 13.2.; or
(c) the applicant has been removed, deported or has
left the UK having had an application for permission
to enter or stay in the UK refused; or
(d) the applicant left the UK with no reasonable
expectation at the time of leaving that they would
lawfully be able to return.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-private-life

Page 13 of 24

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Private Life - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:04 pm

English language requirement for
settlement on the Private Life route
PL 16.1. Unless an exemption applies, the applicant
must:
(a) Where the date of application is before 26 March
2027, the applicant must, unless an exemption
applies, show English language ability on the
Common European Framework of Reference for
Languages in speaking and listening to at least level
B1; or
(b) Where the date of application is on or after 26
March 2027, the applicant must, unless an
exemption applies, show English language ability on
the Common European Framework of Reference for
Languages in speaking and listening to at least level
B2.
PL 16.2. The applicant must show they meet the English
language requirement as specified in Appendix English
Language.

Knowledge of life in the UK requirement
for settlement on the Private Life route
PL17.1. Unless an exemption applies (for example
where the applicant is aged under 18), the applicant
must meet the Knowledge of Life in the UK requirement
as specified in Appendix KOL UK.

Decision on an application for
settlement on the Private Life route
PL 18.1. If the decision maker is satisfied the suitability
and eligibility requirements for settlement on the Private
Life route are met the applicant will be granted
settlement.
PL 18.2. If the requirements for settlement are not met,
but the decision maker believes the applicant is likely to
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-private-life

Page 14 of 24

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Private Life - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:04 pm

meet all the suitability and eligibility requirements for
permission to stay on the private life route the
application will be varied by the Secretary of State to an
application for permission to stay on the private life
route. Where this happens:
(a) no additional application fee for permission to
stay will be required and the settlement application
fee will not be refunded; and
(b) the Secretary of State will write to the applicant
informing them of this variation and if required will
request the applicant pay any Immigration Health
Charge.
PL 18.3. If the applicant does not pay the requested
Immigration Health Charge or does not request a fee
waiver for the Immigration Health Charge which is then
granted, the application for permission to stay will be
rejected as invalid and the applicant will not be refunded
the fee paid for the settlement application.
PL 18.4. Where an applicant is granted permission to
stay they will be granted for a period as set out in PL
10.1. to 10.4. (as relevant), subject to the conditions in
PL 10.5.
PL 18.5. If the decision maker is not satisfied that the
applicant meets all the suitability and eligibility
requirements for settlement or permission to stay the
application for settlement on the Private Life route will
be refused.

Dependent child born in the UK to a
person on the Private Life Route
Validity requirements for a child born in the UK to a
person on the Private Life route
PL 19.1. A person applying for permission to stay as a
child born in the UK to a person on the Private Life route
must apply online on the gov.uk website on the specified
form: “Application to remain in the UK on the basis of
family life or private life”.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-private-life

Page 15 of 24

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Private Life - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:04 pm

PL 19.2. An application for permission to stay as a child
born in the UK to a person on the Private Life route
must meet all the following requirements:
(a) any fee and Immigration Health Charge must
have been paid (unless a fee waiver has been
granted in whole or in part); and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other document which satisfactorily establishes their
identity and nationality; and
(d) the applicant must be applying as a child of a
person (P) on the Private Life route who:
(i) has made a valid application for permission to
stay in the UK on the Private Life route that has
not been decided; or
(ii) has permission to stay on the Private Life
route; or
(iii)is settled or has become a British citizen,
providing P had permission to stay on the Private
Life route when they settled, and the applicant
was born before P settled; and
(e) the applicant must be in the UK on the date of
application.
PL 19.3. An applicant must be aged under 18 at the
date of application.
PL 19.4. If a claim is made under Article 8 of the Human
Rights Convention:
(a) at the same time as a protection claim or further
submission in person after a protection claim is
refused; or
(b) in an appeal (subject to the consent of the
Secretary of State where applicable); the
requirements at PL 19.1. and at PL 19.2. (a) and (c)
will be waived.
PL 19.5. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for a child born in the UK of a
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-private-life

Page 16 of 24

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Private Life - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:04 pm

person on the Private Life route may be rejected as
invalid and not considered.

Suitability requirements for a child born
in the UK to a person on the Private Life
route
PL 20.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
PL 20.2. DELETED.

Eligibility requirements for a child born
in the UK to a person on the Private Life
route
Relationship requirements for a child born in the UK
to a person on the Private Life route
PL 21.1. DELETED
PL 21.2. DELETED

Requirements for a child born in the UK
to a person on the Private Life route.
PL 21A.1. The applicant must meet the following
requirements for a dependent child in Appendix
Children:
(a) independent life requirement; and
(b) care requirement; and
(c) relationship requirement: entry clearance and
permission to stay.
PL 21A.2. The applicant must have been born in the
UK.
PL 22.1. DELETED

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-private-life

Page 17 of 24

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Private Life - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:04 pm

Decision on an application as a child
born in the UK to a person on the
Private Life route
PL 23.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all the
suitability and eligibility requirements are met the
applicant will be granted permission to stay, otherwise
the application will be refused.

Period of grant as a child born in the UK
to a person on the Private Life route
PL 24.1. The applicant will be granted permission to
stay which ends on the same date as whichever of their
parents’ permission ends first unless the other parent is
a British citizen or a person who has a right to enter or
stay in the UK without restriction and is or will be
ordinarily resident in the UK. In such cases, the
applicant will be granted permission to stay which ends
on the same date as the parent on the Private Life
route.

Conditions of grant as a child born in
the UK to a person on the Private Life
route
PL 25.1. The grant of permission will be subject to the
following conditions:
(a) work is permitted; and
(b) study is permitted, subject to the ATAS condition
in Appendix ATAS; and
(c) if the decision maker is satisfied that:
(i) the applicant is destitute, as defined in section
95 of the Immigration and Asylum Act 1999, or is
at risk of imminent destitution; or
(ii) there are reasons relating to the welfare of a
relevant child which outweigh the considerations
for imposing or maintaining the condition
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-private-life

Page 18 of 24

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Private Life - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:04 pm

(treating the best interests of a relevant child as
a primary consideration), or
(iii) the applicant is facing exceptional
circumstances affecting their income or
expenditure,
then the applicant will not be subject to a condition
of no access to public funds. If the decision maker is
not so satisfied, the applicant will be subject to a
condition of no access to public funds.
PL 25.2. For the purposes of PL 25.1(c) ‘relevant child’
means a person who:
(a) is under the age of 18 years at the date of
application; and
(b) it is clear from the information provided by the
applicant, is a child who would be affected by a
decision to impose or maintain the no access to
public funds condition.

Settlement as a child born in the UK of a
person on the Private Life route
Validity requirements for settlement as a child born
in the UK of a person on the Private Life route
PL 26.1. A child applying for settlement as a child born
in the UK of a person on the Private Life route must
apply online on the gov.uk website on the specified
form: “Settlement as a Child (including a child aged over
18 already in the UK as a dependent).”.
PL 26.2. An application for settlement must meet all the
following requirements:
(a) any fee must have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other document which satisfactorily establishes their
identity and nationality; and
(d) the applicant must be applying as a child born in
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-private-life

Page 19 of 24

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Private Life - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:04 pm

the UK of a person (P) on the Private Life route who:
(i) has made a valid application for settlement on
the Private Life route that has not been decided;
or
(ii) is settled or has become a British Citizen,
providing P had permission on the Private Life
route when they settled, and the applicant was
born before P settled; and
(e) the applicant must be in the UK.
PL 26.3. An application as a child born in the UK of a
person on the Private Life route which does not meet all
the validity requirements for settlement may be rejected
as invalid and not considered.

Suitability requirements for settlement
as a child born in the UK of a person on
the Private Life route
PL 27.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
PL 27.2. DELETED.
PL 27.3. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
SUI 5.3. of Part Suitability, unless the applicant has
completed a qualifying period of 10 years with
permission as set out in PL 27.5 and has spent at least
5 years with such permission since the end of their
sentence.
PL 27.4. Where any of the following occur during the
applicant’s qualifying period for settlement, the applicant
must be refused settlement unless the applicant has
completed a continuous qualifying period of 10 years
with permission under PL 27.5 and has completed 5
years continuous residence with such permission after
the date of the first grant of permission after the
suitability ground came to the attention of the decision
maker:
(a) involvement in a sham marriage or civil
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-private-life

Page 20 of 24

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Private Life - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:04 pm

partnership (SUI 8.1. of Part Suitability); or
(b) use of false documents or information or
deception (SUI 9.1. and SUI 10.1. of Part Suitability);
or
(c) litigation debt owed to the Home Office, unless
the debt has been paid (SUI 17.1. of Part Suitability);
or
(d) debt to the NHS, unless the debt has been paid,
or the total value of outstanding charges is under
£500 (SUI 16.1. of Part Suitability); or
(e) the applicant has breached the conditions of their
permission (SUI 11.1. of Part Suitability).
PL 27.5. Where an applicant must complete a qualifying
period of 10 years (under PL 27.3. to PL 27.4.), they
must have had permission as one or a combination of
the following for that 10 year qualifying period:
(a) entry clearance or permission granted as a
partner or parent under Appendix FM (except for
permission as a fiancé(e) or proposed civil partner);
or
(b) permission described in the Home Office grant
letter as “family permission as a parent” or “family
permission as a partner”; or
(c) permission on the private life route under
paragraph 276ADE or 276BE(2) before 20 June
2022 or Appendix Private Life; or
(d) entry clearance or permission as a child of a
person with limited leave as a partner or parent
under Appendix FM; or
(e) permission granted outside the rules as a
partner, a parent or child or because of private life
on the basis of Article 8 of the Human Rights
Convention.
PL 27.6. The applicant must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-private-life

Page 21 of 24

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Private Life - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:04 pm

(b) on immigration bail.

Eligibility requirements for settlement as
a child born in the UK of a person on the
Private Life route
PL 28.1. DELETED
PL 28.2. DELETED

Requirements for settlement as a child
born in the UK to a person on the
Private Life route
PL 28A.1. The applicant must meet the following
requirements for a dependent child in Appendix
Children:
(a) age requirement; and
(b) independent life requirement; and
(c) care requirement; and
(d) relationship requirement: settlement.
PL 28A.2. The applicant must have been born in the
UK.
PL 29.1. DELETED
PL 29.2. DELETED
PL 30.1. DELETED

English language requirement for
settlement as a child born in the UK of a
person on the Private Life route
PL31.1. Unless an exemption applies, the applicant
must:
(a) Where the date of application is before 26 March
2027, the applicant must, unless an exemption
applies, show English language ability on the
Common European Framework of Reference for
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-private-life

Page 22 of 24

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Private Life - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:04 pm

Languages in speaking and listening to at least level
B1; or
(b) Where the date of application is on or after 26
March 2027, the applicant must, unless an
exemption applies, show English language ability on
the Common European Framework of Reference for
Languages in speaking and listening to at least level
B2.
PL 31.2. The applicant must show they meet the English
language requirement as specified in Appendix English
Language.

Knowledge of life in the UK requirement
for settlement as a child born in the UK
of a person on the Private Life route
PL 32.1. Unless an exemption applies (for example
where the applicant is aged under 18), they must meet
the Knowledge of Life in the UK requirement as set out
in Appendix KOL UK.

Decision on an application for
settlement as a dependent child born in
the UK of a person on the Private Life
route.
PL 33.1. If the decision maker is satisfied all the
suitability and eligibility requirements for settlement as a
dependent child born in the UK of a person on the
Private Life route are met the applicant will be granted
settlement.
PL 33.2. If the requirements for settlement are not met,
but the decision maker believes the applicant is likely to
meet all the suitability and eligibility requirements for
permission to stay as a dependent child born in the UK
of a person on the Private Life route, the application will
not be refused, but will be varied by the Secretary of
State to an application for permission to stay as a
dependent child born in the UK of a person on the
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-private-life

Page 23 of 24

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Private Life - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:04 pm

Private Life route. Where this happens:
(a) no additional application fee for permission to
stay will be required and the settlement application
fee will not be refunded; and
(b) the Secretary of State will write to the applicant
informing them of this variation and if required will
request the applicant pay any Immigration Health
Charge.
PL 33.3. If the applicant does not pay the requested
Immigration Health Charge, or does not request and is
granted a fee waiver for the Immigration Health Charge,
the application for permission to stay will be rejected as
invalid.
PL 33.4. Where an applicant is granted permission to
stay, they will be granted for the period as set out in PL
24.1, subject to the conditions in PL 25.1.
PL 33.5. If the decision maker is not satisfied that the
applicant meets all the suitability and eligibility
requirements for settlement or permission to stay as a
dependent child born in the UK of a person on the
Private Life route, the application for settlement will be
refused.

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-private-life

© Crown copyright
Page 24 of 24

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Relationship with Partner - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:08 pm

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix Relationship
with Partner
Relationship with Partner
This Appendix sets out the requirements for an
application based on a relationship with a partner:
spouse, civil partner, or unmarried partner in a durable
relationship of at least 2 years.
It applies to applications under:
• Appendix HM Armed Forces
• Appendix International Armed Forces and
International Civilian Employees
• Appendix Settlement Protection
• Appendix Student
• Appendix Graduate
• Appendix Skilled Worker
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-relationship-with-partner

Page 1 of 4

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Relationship with Partner - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:08 pm

• Appendix Global Business Mobility – Senior or
Specialist Worker
• Appendix Global Business Mobility – Graduate
Trainee
• Appendix Global Business Mobility – UK
Expansion Worker
• Appendix Global Business Mobility – Service
Supplier
• Appendix Global Business Mobility – Secondment
Worker
• Appendix T2 Minister of Religion
• Appendix Representative of an Overseas Business
• Appendix UK Ancestry
• Appendix Global Talent
• Appendix High Potential Individual
• Appendix Scale-up
• Appendix Start-up
• Appendix Innovator Founder
• Appendix International Sportsperson
• Appendix Temporary Work - Creative Worker
• Appendix Temporary Work - Religious Worker
• Appendix Temporary Work - Charity Worker
• Appendix Temporary Work - International
Agreement
• Appendix Temporary Work - Government
Authorised Exchange
• Appendix Hong Kong British National (Overseas)
• Appendix Ukraine Scheme
• Appendix Afghan Relocation and Assistance Policy
(ARAP)
• Appendix Family Reunion (Sponsors with
Protection)
• Appendix Settlement Family Life
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-relationship-with-partner

Page 2 of 4

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Relationship with Partner - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:08 pm

• Appendix Gurkhas and Hong Kong military unit
veteran discharged before 1 July 1997
• Appendix Statelessness
Age requirement for a person applying as a partner
RWP 1.1. The applicant and their partner must be aged
18 or over on the date of application.
Requirement that the partners must not be closely
related
RWP 2.1. The applicant and their partner must not be
so closely related that they would be prohibited from
marrying, or entering into a civil partnership with, each
other as defined in the Marriage Acts 1949 to 1986, the
Marriage (Scotland) Act 1977 and 1986, the Marriage
(Northern Ireland) Order 2003, the Civil Partnership Act
2004 and the Marriage and Civil Partnership (Scotland)
Act 2014.
Requirement for previous relationships to have
broken down permanently
RWP 3.1. Any previous marriage or civil partnership or
durable relationship of the applicant or their partner with
another person must have permanently broken down
unless RWP 7.1. applies.
Requirement that any marriage or civil partnership
is valid
RWP 4.1. Where the applicant and their partner are
married or in a civil partnership, that marriage or civil
partnership must be recognised by law in the country in
which it took place.
Requirement for a durable relationship where a
person is not married or in a civil partnership
RWP 5.1. Where the applicant and their partner are not
married or in a civil partnership, they must have been in
a relationship similar to a marriage or civil partnership
for at least 2 years before the date of application.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-relationship-with-partner

Page 3 of 4

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Relationship with Partner - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:08 pm

Genuine and subsisting relationship requirement
RWP 6.1. The applicant and their partner must have
met in person.
RWP 6.2. The relationship between the applicant and
their partner must be genuine and subsisting.
Polygamous or polyandrous marriages and civil
partnerships
RWP 7.1. If the applicant or their partner is currently in a
polygamous or polyandrous marriage or civil
partnership, they may only rely on that marriage or civil
partnership for the purposes of an application for entry
clearance, permission to enter or stay or settlement as a
partner where no other partner to the marriage or civil
partnership is seeking, or has been granted:
(a) permission to enter or stay (except as a visitor or
person in transit); or
(b) settlement; or
(c) a certificate of entitlement to Right of Abode in the
UK.

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-relationship-with-partner

© Crown copyright

Page 4 of 4

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Representative of an Overseas Business - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:40 am

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix Representative
of an Overseas Business
Immigration Rules for Representative of an
Overseas Business
A person applying as a Representative of an Overseas
Business must either be a Media Representative or
applying for an extension or settlement as a Sole
Representative.
A Media Representative is an employee of an overseas
media organisation posted to the United Kingdom on a
long-term assignment.
A Sole Representative is a senior employee of an
overseas business who is assigned to the United
Kingdom for the purpose of establishing a branch or
subsidiary.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-representative-of-an-overseas-business

Page 1 of 25

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Representative of an Overseas Business - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:40 am

A dependent partner and dependent children can apply
under this route.
Representative of an Overseas Business is a route to
settlement.
Sole Representatives can no longer apply for an initial
period of permission in the Representative of an
Overseas Business route. Overseas businesses wishing
to establish a UK branch or subsidiary may be able to
send workers on the Global Business Mobility - UK
Expansion Worker route.

Validity requirements for a
Representative of an Overseas Business
ROB 1.1. A person applying for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a Representative of an Overseas
Business must apply online on gov.uk on the specified
form as follows:
(a) for entry clearance, form “Other work” on the
“Find and apply for other visas from outside the UK”
form; or
(b) for permission to stay, form “Application to
extend stay in the UK: FLR(IR)”.
ROB 1.2. An application for entry clearance or
permission to stay as the Representative of an
Overseas Business must meet all the following
requirements:
(a) any fee and Immigration Health Charge must
have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other travel document which satisfactorily
establishes their identity and nationality.
ROB 1.3. The applicant must be aged 18 or over on the
date of application.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-representative-of-an-overseas-business

Page 2 of 25

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Representative of an Overseas Business - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:40 am

ROB 1.4. If the applicant has, in the last 12 months
before the date of application, received an award from a
Government or international scholarship agency
covering both fees and living costs for study in the UK,
they must provide written consent to the application
from that Government or agency.
ROB 1.5. If applying for permission to stay, the applicant
must be in the UK on the date of application.
ROB 1.5ZA. If applying for permission to stay, the
applicant must not have, or have last been granted,
permission:
(a) as a Visitor; or
(b) as a Short-term Student; or
(c) as a Parent of a Child Student; or
(d) as a Seasonal Worker; or
(e) as a Domestic Worker in a Private Household; or
(f) outside the Immigration Rules.
ROB 1.5A. An applicant who is applying for permission
to stay and has, or last had, permission as a Student,
must fulfil one of the Conditions A or B below on the
date of application:
(a) Condition A: the applicant must have completed
the course of study for which the Confirmation of
Acceptance for Studies was assigned (or a course to
which ST 27.3 of Appendix Student applies); or
(b) Condition B: the applicant must:
(i) be studying a full-time course of study leading
to the award of a PhD with a higher education
provider which has a track record of compliance;
and
(ii) have completed at least 24 months of study
on that course.
ROB 1.6. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for a Representative of an
Overseas Business may be rejected as invalid and not
considered.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-representative-of-an-overseas-business

Page 3 of 25

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Representative of an Overseas Business - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:40 am

Suitability requirements for a
Representative of an Overseas Business
ROB 2.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
ROB 2.2. If applying for permission to stay the applicant
must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.

Eligibility requirements for
Representative of an Overseas Business
Entry requirements for Representative of an
Overseas Business
ROB 3.1. A person seeking to come to the UK as a
Representative of an Overseas Business must have
applied for and obtained entry clearance as a
Representative of an Overseas Business before their
arrival in the UK.
ROB 3.2. A person applying for entry clearance as a
Representative of an Overseas Business must, if
Appendix Tuberculosis applies, provide a valid medical
certificate confirming that they have undergone
screening for active pulmonary tuberculosis and that this
tuberculosis is not present in them.
Work requirement for Representative of an
Overseas Business
ROB 4.1. The overseas business or media organisation
that the applicant represents must be active and trading
outside the UK, with its headquarters and principal place
of business remaining outside the UK.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-representative-of-an-overseas-business

Page 4 of 25

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Representative of an Overseas Business - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:40 am

ROB 4.2. The applicant must have been recruited and
taken on as an employee outside the UK by the
business they will represent.
ROB 4.3. The applicant must intend to work full-time as
the representative of the overseas business or media
organisation and must not intend to undertake work for
any other business or engage in business of their own.
ROB 4.4. An applicant must be either:
(a) a Sole Representative who already has, or was
last granted, permission as a Sole Representative
and is a senior employee of an overseas business,
who is assigned to the UK to establish and
supervise a branch or subsidiary of an overseas
business, where that branch or subsidiary will
actively trade in the same type of business as the
overseas business; or
(b) a Media Representative who is posted on a longterm assignment to the UK on behalf of a
newspaper, news agency or broadcasting
organisation.
Genuineness requirement for the Representative of
an Overseas Business
ROB 5.1. The decision maker must be satisfied that the
applicant is a genuine Representative of an Overseas
Business.
ROB 5.2. The decision maker must not have reasonable
grounds to believe the business is being established in
the UK by the overseas business, or the applicant has
been appointed as a representative of the overseas
business or media organisation, mainly so the applicant
can apply for entry clearance or permission to stay.
English language requirement for a Representative
of an Overseas Business
ROB 6.1. The applicant must show English language
ability on the Common European Framework of
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-representative-of-an-overseas-business

Page 5 of 25

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Representative of an Overseas Business - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:40 am

Reference for Languages in speaking and listening of at
least level A1.
ROB 6.2. The applicant must show they meet the
English language requirement as specified in Appendix
English Language.
Financial requirement for a Representative of an
Overseas Business
ROB 7.1. The decision maker must be satisfied that the
applicant can, and will, adequately maintain and
accommodate themselves, and any dependants in the
UK, without access to public funds.
ROB 7.2. Funds must be shown as specified in
Appendix Finance.
Additional business requirements for a Sole
Representative on the Representative of an
Overseas Business route
ROB 8.1. Where the applicant is applying as a Sole
Representative on the Representative of an Overseas
Business route, the applicant must meet the additional
business requirements set out in ROB 8.2. to ROB 8.6.
ROB 8.2. The applicant must be a senior employee of
the overseas business with the skills, experience and
knowledge of the business necessary to undertake the
role, with full authority to negotiate and take operational
decisions on behalf of the overseas business.
ROB 8.3. The applicant must not have a majority stake
in, or otherwise own or control a majority of the
overseas business they represent, whether that
ownership or control is by means of a shareholding,
partnership agreement, sole proprietorship or any other
arrangement.
ROB 8.4. DELETED.
ROB 8.5. DELETED.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-representative-of-an-overseas-business

Page 6 of 25

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Representative of an Overseas Business - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:40 am

ROB 8.6. The applicant must meet all the following
requirements:
(a) the applicant must have established the
registered branch or wholly-owned subsidiary of the
overseas business for which they were last granted
permission under this route; and
(b) the applicant must be engaged in full time
employment and must supervise the registered
branch or wholly-owned subsidiary which they have
established, and must be required by their employer
to continue in that role; and
(c) the applicant must provide all of the following:
(i) evidence of business that has been
generated, principally with firms in the UK, on
behalf of their employer since their last grant of
permission, in the form of accounts, copies of
invoices or letters from businesses with whom
the applicant has done business, including the
value of transactions; and
(ii) a Companies House certificate of registration
as a UK establishment (for a branch), or a
certificate of incorporation (for a subsidiary),
together with either a copy of the share register
or a letter from the overseas business’s
accountant confirming that the UK business is
wholly owned by the overseas business; and
(iii) a letter from the applicant’s employer
confirming that the applicant supervises the UK
branch or subsidiary and is required to continue
in that employment; and
(iv) evidence of salary paid by the employer in
the 12 months immediately before the date of
application and details of the remuneration
package the employee receives.
Additional business requirements for a Media
Representative on the Representative of an
Overseas Business route
ROB 9.1. Where the applicant is applying as a Media
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-representative-of-an-overseas-business

Page 7 of 25

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Representative of an Overseas Business - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:40 am

Representative on the Representative of Overseas
Business route, the applicant must meet the additional
business requirements in ROB 9.2. and ROB 9.3.
ROB 9.2. The applicant must be an employee of an
overseas newspaper, news agency or broadcasting
organisation undertaking a long-term assignment as a
representative of their overseas employer.
ROB 9.3. Where the applicant is applying for permission
to stay and has, or was last granted, permission as a
Media Representative, the applicant must meet all the
following:
(a) the applicant must be engaged in full time
employment for which their last period of permission
was granted and be required by their employer to
continue in that role; and
(b) the applicant must provide the following:
(i) a letter from the applicant’s employer
confirming that the applicant is required to
continue in their employment; and
(ii) evidence of the applicant’s salary paid in the
12 months immediately before the date of
application and details of the remuneration
package the employee receives.

Decision on an application as
Representative of an Overseas Business
ROB 10.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all the
suitability and relevant eligibility requirements are met
as a Representative of an Overseas Business the
application will be granted, otherwise the application will
be refused.
ROB 10.2. If the application is refused, a person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.
Period of grant for a Representative of an Overseas
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-representative-of-an-overseas-business

Page 8 of 25

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Representative of an Overseas Business - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:40 am

Business
ROB 11.1. If the applicant is applying for entry clearance
as a Media Representative under the Representative of
an Overseas Business route or is applying for
permission to stay as a Media Representative and does
not have, or did not last have, permission on the
Representative of an Overseas Business route they will
be granted permission for a period not exceeding 3
years.
ROB 11.2. If the applicant has or last had, permission
under the Representative of an Overseas Business
route, they will be granted permission for a period not
exceeding 2 years.
Conditions of grant for a Representative of an
Overseas Business
ROB 11.3. The grant will be subject to all the following
conditions:
(a) no access to public funds; and
(b) no work permitted other than working for the
overseas business which the applicant represents;
and
(c) study is permitted, subject to the ATAS condition
in Appendix ATAS.
(d) DELETED

Settlement as a Representative of an
Overseas Business
Validity requirements for Settlement by a
Representative of an Overseas Business
ROB 12.1. A person applying for settlement as a
Representative of an Overseas Business must apply
online on the gov.uk website on the specified form,
“Settle in the UK in various immigration categories: form
SET(O)”.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-representative-of-an-overseas-business

Page 9 of 25

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Representative of an Overseas Business - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:40 am

ROB 12.2. An application for settlement as a
Representative of an Overseas Business must meet all
the following requirements:
(a) any fee must have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a valid
passport or other travel document which
satisfactorily establishes their identity and
nationality.
ROB 12.3. The applicant must be in the UK and have,
or have last been granted, permission as a
Representative of an Overseas Business.
ROB 12.4. An application which does not meet the
validity requirements for settlement as a Representative
of an Overseas Business may be rejected as invalid and
not considered.
Suitability requirements for settlement by a
Representative of an Overseas Business
ROB 13.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
ROB 13.2. The applicant must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.
Eligibility requirements for settlement by a
Representative of an Overseas Business
Qualifying period requirement for settlement by a
Representative of an Overseas Business

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-representative-of-an-overseas-business

Page 10 of 25

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Representative of an Overseas Business - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:40 am

ROB 14.1. The applicant must have spent the last 5
years before the date of application in the UK with
permission as a Representative of an Overseas
Business.
Continuous residence requirement for settlement by
a Representative of an Overseas Business
ROB 15.1. The applicant must meet the continuous
resident requirement in Appendix Continuous
Residence during the period in ROB 14.1.
Work requirement for settlement by a
Representative of an Overseas Business
ROB 16.1. Throughout the period in ROB 14.1:
(a) the overseas business or media organisation that
the applicant represents must have been active and
trading with its headquarters and principal place of
business remaining outside the UK; and
(b) the applicant must have been employed and
working fulltime for the overseas business or media
organisation they represent, or for that business’s
UK branch or subsidiary, and
(c) the applicant must not have undertaken work for
any other business or engaged in business of their
own.
ROB 16.2. The applicant must provide:
(a) evidence of salary paid by their employer in the
12 months immediately before the date of
application and details of the renumeration package
the employee receives; and
(b) a letter from their employer confirming that they
still require the applicant to work for them, and that
the applicant will be required for the foreseeable
future.
ROB 16.3. The applicant must be required by their
employer to continue in the role for which their last
period of permission was granted.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-representative-of-an-overseas-business

Page 11 of 25

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Representative of an Overseas Business - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:40 am

Additional business requirements for settlement by
a Sole Representative on the Representative of an
Overseas Business route
ROB 16A.1. Where the applicant has, or was last
granted permission as a Sole Representative, the
applicant must meet the additional business
requirements set out in ROB 16A.2. and ROB 16A.3.
ROB 16A.2. Throughout the period in ROB 14.1, the
applicant must have met the following requirements:
(a) they must not have had a majority stake in, or
otherwise owned or controlled a majority of the
overseas business they represent, whether that
ownership or control was by means of a
shareholding, partnership agreement, sole
proprietorship or any other arrangement; and
(b) the applicant must have established and then
supervised the registered a branch or wholly owned
subsidiary of the overseas business they represent
in the UK, where that branch or subsidiary was
actively trading in the same type of business as the
overseas business.
ROB 16A.3. The applicant must provide all of the
following:
(a) evidence of business that has been generated,
principally with firms in the UK, on behalf of their
employer since their last grant of permission, in the
form of accounts, copies of invoices or letters from
businesses with whom the applicant has done
business, including the value of transactions; and
(b) either a copy of the share register or a letter from
the overseas business’s accountant confirming that
the UK business is wholly owned by the overseas
business; and
(c) a letter from the applicant’s employer confirming
that the applicant has supervised the UK branch or
subsidiary since the last grant of permission.
Additional business requirements for settlement by
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-representative-of-an-overseas-business

Page 12 of 25

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Representative of an Overseas Business - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:40 am

a Media Representative on the Representative of an
Overseas Business route
ROB 16B.1. Where the applicant has, or was last
granted, permission as a Media Representative, the
applicant must meet the additional business
requirements set out in ROB 16B.2.
ROB 16B.2. Throughout the period in ROB 14.1, the
applicant must have met the following requirements:
(a) they must have been an employee of an
overseas newspaper, news agency or broadcasting
organisation undertaking a long-term assignment as
a representative of their overseas employer; and
(b) the applicant must have been engaged in the
employment for which their last period of permission
was granted.
English language requirement for settlement by a
Representative of an Overseas Business
ROB 17.1. Unless an exemption applies, the applicant
must:
(a) Where the date of application is before 26 March
2027, the applicant must, unless an exemption
applies, show English language ability on the
Common European Framework of Reference for
Languages in speaking and listening to at least level
B1; or
(b) Where the date of application is on or after 26
March 2027, the applicant must, unless an
exemption applies, show English language ability on
the Common European Framework of Reference for
Languages in speaking and listening to at least level
B2.
ROB 17.2. The applicant must show they meet the
English language requirement as specified in Appendix
English Language.
Knowledge of life in the UK requirement for
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-representative-of-an-overseas-business

Page 13 of 25

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Representative of an Overseas Business - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:40 am

settlement by a Representative of an Overseas
Business
ROB 18.1. The applicant must meet the Knowledge of
Life in the UK requirement as specified in Appendix KOL
UK.

Decision on an application for
settlement as a Representative of an
Overseas Business Route
ROB 19.1. If the decision maker is satisfied all the
suitability and relevant eligibility requirements are met
for settlement by a Representative of an Overseas
Business, the applicant will be granted settlement,
otherwise the application will be refused.
ROB 19.2. If the application is refused, a person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.

Dependants of Representatives of
Overseas Businesses
Validity requirements for a dependent partner or
dependent child of a Representative of an Overseas
Business
ROB.20.1. A person applying for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a partner or child on the
Representative of an Overseas Business route must
apply online on the gov.uk website on the specified form
as follows:
(a) for entry clearance, “Join or accompany a family
member” on the “Find and apply for other visas from
outside the UK” form; or
(b) for permission to stay, “Application to extend stay
in the UK: FLR(IR)”.
ROB 20.2. An application for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a partner or child of a
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-representative-of-an-overseas-business

Page 14 of 25

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Representative of an Overseas Business - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:40 am

Representative of an Overseas Business must meet all
the following requirements:
(a) any fee and Immigration Health Charge must
have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other travel document which satisfactorily
establishes their identity and nationality; and
(d) the applicant must be applying as partner or child
of a person who:
(i) has made a valid application for entry
clearance or permission to stay on the
Representative of an Overseas Business route
that has not been decided; or
(ii) has entry clearance or permission on the
Representative of an Overseas Business route;
or
(iii)is settled or has become a British citizen,
providing that person (P) had permission on the
Representative of an Overseas Business route
when they settled and the applicant either had
permission as their partner or child at that time,
or the applicant is applying as a child of P and
the applicant was born in the UK before P
settled.
ROB 20.3. A person applying as a dependent partner
must be aged 18 or over on the date of application.
ROB 20.4. If applying for permission to stay, the
applicant must be in the UK on the date of application.
ROB 20.4ZA. If applying for permission to stay, the
applicant must not have, or have last been granted,
permission:
(a) as a Visitor; or
(b) as a Short-term Student; or
(c) as a Parent of a Child Student; or
(d) as a Seasonal Worker; or
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-representative-of-an-overseas-business

Page 15 of 25

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Representative of an Overseas Business - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:40 am

(e) as a Domestic Worker in a Private Household; or
(f) outside the Immigration Rules.
ROB 20.4A. An applicant who is applying for permission
to stay and has, or last had, permission as a Student,
must fulfil one of the Conditions A or B below on the
date of application:
(a) Condition A: the applicant must have completed
the course of study for which the Confirmation of
Acceptance for Studies was assigned (or a course to
which ST 27.3 of Appendix Student applies); or
(b) Condition B: the applicant must:
(i) be studying a full-time course of study leading
to the award of a PhD with a higher education
provider which has a track record of compliance;
and
(ii) have completed at least 24 months of study
on that course.
ROB 20.5. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for a partner or child of a
Representative of an Overseas Business may be
rejected as invalid and not considered.
Suitability requirements for a partner or child on the
Representative of an Overseas Business route
ROB 21.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
ROB 21.2. If applying for permission to stay the
applicant must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.
Eligibility requirements for a partner or child on the
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-representative-of-an-overseas-business

Page 16 of 25

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Representative of an Overseas Business - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:40 am

Representative of an Overseas Business route
Entry requirement for a partner or child on the
Representative of an Overseas Business route
ROB 22.1. A person seeking to come to the UK as a
partner or child must apply for and obtain an entry
clearance as a partner or child before they arrive in the
UK.
ROB 22.2. A person applying for entry clearance as the
partner or child of a Representative of an Overseas
Business must, if Appendix Tuberculosis applies,
provide a valid medical certificate confirming that they
have undergone screening for active pulmonary
tuberculosis and that this tuberculosis is not present in
them.
Relationship requirements for a partner of a
Representative of an Overseas Business route
ROB 23.1. The applicant must be the partner of a
person (P) and one of the following must apply:
(a) P has permission on the Representative of an
Overseas Business route; or
(b) P is, at the same time, applying for (and is
granted) permission on the Representative of an
Overseas Business route; or
(c) P is settled or has become a British citizen,
providing they had permission on a Representative
of an Overseas Business route when they settled
and the applicant had permission as their partner at
that time.
ROB 23.2. The requirements of Appendix Relationship
with Partner must be met.
ROB 23.3. DELETED
ROB 23.4. DELETED

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-representative-of-an-overseas-business

Page 17 of 25

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Representative of an Overseas Business - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:40 am

Relationship requirement for a dependent child on
the Representative of an Overseas Business route
ROB 24.1. DELETED.
ROB 24.2. DELETED.
Care requirement for a dependent child on the
Representative of an Overseas Business route
ROB 25.1. DELETED.
Age requirement for a dependent child on the
Representative of an Overseas Business route
ROB 26.1. DELETED.
ROB 26.2. DELETED.
Requirements for a dependent child on the
Representative of an Overseas Business route
ROB 26A.1. The applicant must meet the following
requirements for a dependent child in Appendix
Children:
(a) relationship requirement: entry clearance and
permission to stay; and
(b) care requirement; and
(c) age and independent life requirement.
Financial requirement for a partner or child on the
Representative of an Overseas Business route
ROB 27.1. The decision maker must be satisfied that
the applicant or the Representative of an Overseas
Business can and will adequately maintain and
accommodate the applicant, and any other dependants
in the UK, or applying for entry clearance, without
access to public funds.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-representative-of-an-overseas-business

Page 18 of 25

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Representative of an Overseas Business - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:40 am

ROB 27.2. Funds must be shown as specified in
Appendix Finance.
Overseas business requirement for a partner or
child on the Representative of an Overseas
Business route
ROB 28.1. If the person (P) in ROB 23.1. is a Sole
Representative, the applicant must not have a majority
stake in, or otherwise own or control a majority of the
overseas business P represents, whether that
ownership or control is by means of a shareholding,
partnership agreement, sole proprietorship or any other
arrangement.
Decision on an application as a dependent partner
or dependent child on the Representative of an
Overseas Business route
ROB 29.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all the
suitability and eligibility requirements are met for a
dependent partner or dependent child on the
Representative of an Overseas Business route the
application will be granted, otherwise the application will
be refused.
ROB 29.2. If the application is refused the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.
Period of grant for a dependent partner or
dependent child on the Representative of an
Overseas Business route
ROB 30.1. A partner will be granted:
(a) permission which ends on the same date as the
permission as the Representative of an Overseas
Business; or
(b) 2 years’ permission if the Representative of an
Overseas Business was (or is being) granted
settlement as a Representative of an Overseas
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-representative-of-an-overseas-business

Page 19 of 25

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Representative of an Overseas Business - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:40 am

Business.
ROB 30.2. A dependent child will be granted permission
which ends on the same date as whichever of their
parents’ permission ends first, unless both parents have
(or are being granted) settlement or British Citizenship,
in which case the child will be granted permission for 30
months.
Conditions of grant for a dependent partner or
dependent child on the Representative of an
Overseas Business route
ROB 30.3. The grant will be subject to all the following
conditions:
(a) no access to public funds; and
(b) work (including self-employment and voluntary
work) permitted; except for employment as a
professional sportsperson (including as a sports
coach); and
(c) study is permitted, subject to the ATAS condition
in Appendix ATAS.
(d) DELETED
Settlement by dependent partner and dependent
child on the Representative of an Overseas
Business route
Validity requirements for settlement by a dependent
partner or dependent child on the Representative of
an Overseas Business route
ROB 31.1. A partner or child on the Representative of
an Overseas Business route who is applying for
settlement must apply online on the gov.uk website on
the specified form “Settle in the UK in various
immigration categories: form SET(O)”.
ROB 31.2. An application for settlement as a partner or
child of a Representative of an Overseas Business must
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-representative-of-an-overseas-business

Page 20 of 25

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Representative of an Overseas Business - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:40 am

meet all the following requirements:
(a) any fee must have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided either a
passport or other travel document which
satisfactorily establishes their identity and
nationality; and
(d) the applicant must be in the UK; and
(e) the applicant must be applying as a partner or
child of a person (P) who:
(i) has made a valid application for settlement in
the UK as a Representative of an Overseas
Business and that application has not been
decided; or
(ii) is settled or has become a British citizen,
providing P had permission as a Representative
of an Overseas Business when they settled and
the applicant either had permission as their
partner or child at that time or the applicant is
applying as a child of P and the applicant was
born in the UK before P settled.
ROB 31.3. DELETED.
ROB 31.4. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for settlement as a partner or child
on the Representative of an Overseas Business route
may be rejected as invalid and not considered.
Suitability Requirements for settlement by a
dependent partner and dependent child on the
Representative of an Overseas Business route
ROB 32.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
ROB 32.2. The applicant must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-representative-of-an-overseas-business

Page 21 of 25

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Representative of an Overseas Business - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:40 am

Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.
Eligibility requirements for settlement by a
dependent partner or dependent child on the
Representative of an Overseas Business route
Relationship requirement for settlement by a partner
or child on the Representative of an Overseas
Business route
ROB 33.1. The applicant must be the partner or child of
a person (P) where one of the following applies:
(a) P is, at the same time, being granted settlement
as a Representative of an Overseas Business; or
(b) P is settled in the UK or has become a British
citizen, providing P had permission as a
Representative of an Overseas Business when they
settled and the applicant either:
i) had permission as P’s partner or child at that
time; or
ii) is applying as a child of P, and was born in the
UK before P settled.
ROB 33.1A. The applicant must either:
(a) have last been granted permission as a
dependent partner or dependent child of the person
(P) in ROB 33.1; or
(b) have been born in the UK and be applying as a
child of the person (P) in ROB 33.1.
ROB 33.2. If applying as a child, the applicant must
meet the relationship requirement for settlement for a
dependent child in Appendix Children.
ROB 33.3. If applying as a partner, the requirements of
Appendix Relationship with Partner must be met.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-representative-of-an-overseas-business

Page 22 of 25

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Representative of an Overseas Business - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:40 am

Care requirement for settlement by a child on the
Representative of an Overseas Business route
ROB 34.1. DELETED.
Age requirement for settlement by a child on the
Representative of an Overseas Business route
ROB 35.1. DELETED.
ROB 35.2. DELETED.
Requirements for settlement as a dependent child
on the Representative of an Overseas Business
route
ROB 35A.1. The applicant must meet the following
requirements for a dependent child in Appendix
Children:
(a) care requirement; and
(b) age and independent life requirement.
English language requirement for settlement by a
partner or child on the Representative of an
Overseas Business route
ROB 36.1. Unless an exemption applies, the applicant
must:
(a) Where the date of application is before 26 March
2027, the applicant must, unless an exemption
applies, show English language ability on the
Common European Framework of Reference for
Languages in speaking and listening to at least level
B1; or
(b) Where the date of application is on or after 26
March 2027, the applicant must, unless an
exemption applies, show English language ability on
the Common European Framework of Reference for
Languages in speaking and listening to at least level
B2.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-representative-of-an-overseas-business

Page 23 of 25

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Representative of an Overseas Business - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:40 am

ROB 36.2. The applicant must show they meet the
English language requirement as specified in Appendix
English Language.
Knowledge of life in the UK requirement for
settlement by a partner or child on the
Representative of an Overseas Business route
ROB 37.1. If the applicant is aged 18 or over at the date
of application, they must meet the Knowledge of Life in
the UK requirement as set out in Appendix KOL UK.
Decision on an application for settlement as a
partner or child on the Representative of an
Overseas Business route
ROB 38.1. If the decision maker is satisfied all the
suitability and eligibility requirements are met for
settlement as a dependent partner or dependent child
on the Representative of an Overseas Business route,
the applicant will be granted settlement, otherwise the
application will be refused.
ROB 38.2. If the application is refused the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-representative-of-an-overseas-business

Page 24 of 25

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Representative of an Overseas Business - Guidance - GOV.UK

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-representative-of-an-overseas-business

07/05/2026, 11:40 am

© Crown copyright

Page 25 of 25

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Returning Resident - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:07 pm

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix
Returning Resident
This route is for a ‘Returning Resident’,
which means a person who previously had
indefinite permission to enter or stay
(settlement) in the UK which has now
lapsed and who now wants to return to and
settle in the UK.
A Returning Resident’s previous settlement in the UK
must have lapsed by operation of law after they were
outside the UK for a continuous period:
• of more than 2 years under the Immigration (Leave to
Enter and Remain) Order 2000, or
• of more than 5 years, if they previously had settlement
in the UK under the EU Settlement Scheme, or
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-returning-resident

Page 1 of 5

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Returning Resident - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:07 pm

• of more than 4 years, if they previously had settlement
in the UK under the EUSS as a Swiss national or a
family member of a Swiss national.
A Returning Resident cannot bring or be joined by a
partner or children on this route. Each person must
qualify as a Returning Resident in their own right.
Settlement does not lapse for a person who is outside
the UK accompanying their partner or parent who is a
member of HM Forces or a Crown Servant.
A Returning Resident may also be able to apply under
the Windrush Scheme.

Validity requirements for an application
as a Returning Resident
RR 1.1. A person applying as a Returning Resident
must apply online on the gov.uk website on the specified
form as follows:
(a) Form “UKA/ROA/RR”; or
(b) for applicants under the Windrush Scheme, the
“Windrush Scheme application (Overseas)” form.
See Applying to the Windrush schemes from
overseas guidance - GOV.UK (www.gov.uk
(https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/applying-tothe-windrush-schemes-from-overseas/applying-to-thewindrush-schemes-from-overseas-guidance))

RR 1.2. An application as a Returning Resident must
meet all the following requirements:
(a) the applicant must be outside the UK; and
(b) the applicant must have paid any required fee
(no fee is required under the Windrush Scheme);
and
(c) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(d) the applicant must provide a passport or other
travel document which satisfactorily establishes their
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-returning-resident

Page 2 of 5

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Returning Resident - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:07 pm

identity and nationality.
RR 1.3. DELETED
RR 1.4. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for a Returning Resident may be
rejected as invalid and not considered.

Suitability requirements for a Returning
Resident
RR 2.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.

Eligibility requirements for a Returning
Resident
Entry requirement for a Returning Resident
RR 3.1. A person seeking to come to the UK as a
Returning Resident must apply for and obtain an entry
clearance as a Returning Resident before they arrive in
the UK.
RR 3.2. A person applying for entry clearance as a
Returning Resident must, if Appendix Tuberculosis
applies, provide a valid medical certificate confirming
that they have undergone screening for active
pulmonary tuberculosis and that this tuberculosis is not
present in them.
RR 3.3. A person applying for entry clearance must
have previously been granted settlement in the UK
which has lapsed by operation of law due to their
absence from the UK.
Intention to settle requirement for a Returning
Resident
RR 4.1. The decision maker must be satisfied that the
applicant genuinely intends to return to the UK for the
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-returning-resident

Page 3 of 5

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Returning Resident - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:07 pm

purpose of settlement.
Previous departure from UK requirement for a
Returning Resident
RR 5.1. Unless they are applying under the Windrush
Scheme, the applicant must not have received
assistance from public funds towards the cost of leaving
the UK.
Strong ties to the UK requirement for a Returning
Resident
RR 6.1. The decision maker must be satisfied that the
applicant has maintained strong ties to the UK during
their absence from the UK.
Parental consent requirement for a Returning
Resident aged under 18
RR 7.1. The applicant must meet the parental consent
requirement for “applicant not applying as a dependent
child” in Appendix Children.
RR 7.2. DELETED.

Decision on an application as a
Returning Resident
RR 8.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all the
suitability and eligibility requirements for a Returning
Resident are met, the application will be granted;
otherwise, the application will be refused.
RR 8.2. If the application is refused, a request can be
made for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.

Period of grant as a Returning Resident
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-returning-resident

Page 4 of 5

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Returning Resident - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:07 pm

RR 9.1. The applicant will be granted entry clearance for
settlement.

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-returning-resident

© Crown copyright

Page 5 of 5

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix S2 Healthcare Visitor - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:33 am

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix S2
Healthcare Visitor
Immigration Rules for S2 Healthcare
Visitors
This route relates to the UK’s exit from the European
Union. It is for a person who, before the end of the
transition period (11pm on 31 December 2020), had
requested authorisation to receive a course of planned
healthcare treatment under the S2 route, pursuant to
Regulation (EC) No 883/2004.
The person seeking healthcare treatment may be
accompanied on this route by another person who is
providing care or support during the planned healthcare
treatment.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-s2-healthcare-visitor

Page 1 of 10

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix S2 Healthcare Visitor - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:33 am

Validity requirements for entry clearance
or permission to stay as an S2
Healthcare Visitor
HV 1.1. A person applying for entry clearance as an S2
Healthcare Visitor must apply online on the specified
form on the gov.uk website “Apply for an exempt,
diplomatic or official visit vignette or S2 Healthcare
Visitor visa”.
HV 1.2. An application for entry clearance as an S2
Healthcare Visitor must be made while the applicant is
outside the UK and to a post designated to accept such
applications.
HV 1.3. A person applying for permission to stay as an
S2 Healthcare Visitor must apply on form “Application to
extend stay in the UK: FLR(IR)” and must have, or have
last held, permission as an S2 Healthcare Visitor.
HV 1.4. An application for entry clearance or permission
to stay as an S2 Healthcare Visitor must meet all the
following requirements:
(a) the applicant must have provided any required
biometrics; and
(b) if the applicant is an EEA citizen they must have
provided a passport or valid national identity card
which satisfactorily establishes their identity and
nationality; and
(c) if the applicant is a non-EEA citizen they must
have provided a passport or other travel document
which satisfactorily establishes their identity and
nationality.
HV 1.5. A person to whom article 5 of the Immigration
(Control of Entry Through Republic of Ireland) 1972
Order (“the 1972 Order”) applies, may only apply for
permission to stay under this Appendix where that
permission is to commence after the end of the 6 month
period set out in article 5 of the 1972 Order.
HV 1.6. An application for permission to stay as an S2
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-s2-healthcare-visitor

Page 2 of 10

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix S2 Healthcare Visitor - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:33 am

Healthcare Visitor must be made by a person:
(a) in the UK; and
(b) who has, or who last had, permission as an S2
Healthcare Visitor.
HV 1.7. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for an S2 Healthcare Visitor may
be rejected as invalid and not considered.

Suitability requirements for an S2
Healthcare Visitor
HV 2.1. Subject to HV 2.2, an application must be
refused on grounds of suitability where either of the
following apply at the date of the decision:
(a) he applicant is subject to a deportation order or a
decision to make a deportation order; or
(b) the applicant is subject to an exclusion order or
exclusion decision.
HV 2.2. Where a decision under HV 2.1 relates to
conduct committed before 11pm on 31 December 2020,
the decision maker must be satisfied that the order or
decision is justified on the grounds of public policy,
public security or public health in accordance with
regulation 27 of the EEA Regulations, irrespective of
whether the EEA Regulations apply to that person
(except that in applying this provision for “an EEA
decision” read “a decision under HV 2.1 of Appendix S2
Healthcare Visitor”).
HV 2.3. An application may be refused on grounds of
suitability if, at the date of decision, the decision maker
is satisfied that it is proportionate to refuse the
application where:
(a) in relation to the application and whether or not
to the applicant’s knowledge, false or misleading
information, representations or documents have
been submitted (including false or misleading
information submitted to any person to obtain a
document used in support of the application); and
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-s2-healthcare-visitor

Page 3 of 10

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix S2 Healthcare Visitor - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:33 am

the information, representation or documentation is
material to the decision whether or not to grant the
application; or
(b) in respect of conduct committed on or before
11pm on 31 December 2020, on grounds of public
policy, public security or public health in accordance
with regulation 27 of the EEA Regulations,
irrespective of whether the EEA Regulations apply to
that person (except that in applying this provision for
“an EEA decision” read “a decision under paragraph
HV 2.3 of Appendix S2 Healthcare Visitor”.); or
(c) in respect of conduct committed after 11pm on 31
December 2020, on the grounds that the presence
of the applicant in the UK is not conducive to the
public good; or
(d) subject to HV 2.4, the applicant is the subject of
an Islands deportation order as defined by
paragraph 3(6) of Schedule 4 to the Immigration Act
1971; or
(e) subject to HV 2.4, the applicant is the subject of
an Islands exclusion decision which is a direction
given by the relevant Minister or other authority in
the Islands concerned that the applicant must be
refused entry to the Island concerned on the
grounds that their presence there would not be
conducive to the public good..
HV 2.4. Where a decision under HV 2.3(d) or (e) relates
to conduct at or before 11pm on 31 December 2020, the
decision maker must be satisfied that the order or
decision is justified on the grounds of public policy,
public security or public health in accordance with
regulation 27 of the EEA Regulations, irrespective of
whether the EEA Regulations apply to that person
(except that in applying this provision for “an EEA
decision” read “a decision under HV 2.3 of Appendix S2
Healthcare Visitor”).

Eligibility requirements for an S2
Healthcare Visitor
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-s2-healthcare-visitor

Page 4 of 10

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix S2 Healthcare Visitor - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:33 am

Entry requirements for an S2 Healthcare Visitor
HV 3.1. A person seeking to come to or stay in the UK
as an S2 Healthcare Visitor must be a person to whom
one of the following applies:
(a) Article 32(1)(b) of the withdrawal agreement; or
(b) Article 31(1)(b) of the EEA EFTA separation
agreement; or
(c) Article 26a(1)(b) of the Swiss citizens’ rights
agreement.
HV 3.2. A person seeking to come to the UK as an S2
Healthcare Visitor and who is a visa national must apply
for and obtain entry clearance as an S2 Healthcare
Visitor before they arrive in the UK.
HV 3.3. A person to whom HV 3.2. applies will be
refused permission to enter if they do not hold entry
clearance as an S2 Healthcare Visitor on arrival in the
UK.
HV 3.4. A person who is a non-visa national seeking to
come to the UK as an S2 Healthcare Visitor may apply
for permission to enter on arrival in the UK.
Financial requirement for an S2 Healthcare Visitor
HV 4.1. The applicant must have access to sufficient
funds to cover all reasonable costs in relation to their
visit without working or accessing public funds, including
the cost of the return or onward journey.
HV 4.2. The applicant must show funds as specified in
Appendix Finance.
HV 4.3. A S2 Healthcare Visitor’s travel, maintenance
and accommodation may be provided by a third party
where the decision maker is satisfied that they can and
will provide support to the S2 Healthcare Visitor for the
intended duration of their stay.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-s2-healthcare-visitor

Page 5 of 10

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix S2 Healthcare Visitor - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:33 am

Treatment requirement for an S2 Healthcare Visitor
HV 5.1. The course of planned healthcare treatment
must have been arranged prior to the applicant’s travel
to the UK.
Patient (P) requirement
HV 6.1. Where the applicant is the patient (P) they must
provide their valid S2 certificate of entitlement to
scheduled treatment.
HV 6.2. Where P is applying for permission to stay for
the purpose of completing the course of planned
healthcare treatment detailed on their valid S2 certificate
of entitlement to scheduled treatment they must provide
documentation in accordance with one of the following;
(a) the valid S2 certificate of entitlement to
scheduled treatment specified in HV 6.1 which
demonstrates that the length of treatment extends
beyond the entry clearance granted.
(b) a renewed or extended S2 certificate of
entitlement to scheduled treatment which covers the
period of the extension sought; or
(c) the valid S2 certificate of entitlement to
scheduled treatment specified in HV 6.1. and a letter
from the doctor or other health professional
providing the treatment in the UK detailing the
further treatment required.
Accompanying person (AP) requirement
HV 7.1. Where the applicant is an accompanying person
(AP) they must meet one of the following requirements:
(a) AP is, or will be, accompanying the patient (P) to
the UK at the time of their entry into the UK, and P
is, or will be, an S2 Healthcare Visitor on arrival in
the UK; or
(b) P is in the UK as an S2 Healthcare Visitor and
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-s2-healthcare-visitor

Page 6 of 10

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix S2 Healthcare Visitor - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:33 am

AP will be joining P in the UK.
HV 7.2. AP must provide one of the following to
demonstrate their relationship with the P:
(a) evidence of P’s permission to enter or permission
to stay as an S2 Healthcare Visitor; or
(b) P’s S2 certificate of entitlement to scheduled
treatment; and
(c) if P is an EEA citizen, P’s valid national identity
card or passport issued by an EEA State and if P is
a non-EEA citizen, P’s passport.
HV 7.3. AP must provide evidence that they reside in an
EEA State or Switzerland.
HV 7.4. Where AP is applying for permission to stay
they must also provide the relevant evidence required in
HV 6.2.
HV 7.5. Where, in order to meet the requirements of HV
7.2. to HV 7.4., AP submits a copy (and not the original)
of a document, the decision maker can require the
applicant to submit the original document where the
decision maker has reasonable doubt as to the
genuineness of the copy submitted.
Consent requirement for child S2 Healthcare Visitor
HV 8.1. If the applicant is a child at the date of
application and is not applying or travelling with a parent
or legal guardian who is responsible for their care, the
applicant must have consent from:
(a) a parent; or
(b) their legal guardian.
HV 8.2. The consent must confirm support for all of the
following:
(a) the application; and
(b) the applicant’s living and care arrangements in
the UK; and
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-s2-healthcare-visitor

Page 7 of 10

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix S2 Healthcare Visitor - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:33 am

(c) if the application is for entry clearance or
permission to enter, the applicant’s travel to, and
reception arrangements in, the UK.
HV 8.3. If requested, the consent in HV 8.1. must be
given in writing.

Decision on application as an S2
Healthcare Visitor
HV 9.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all the
suitability and the relevant eligibility requirements are
met for an S2 Healthcare Visitor, the application will be
granted, otherwise the application will be refused.

Period and condition of grant for an S2
Healthcare Visitor
HV 10.1. An S2 Healthcare Visitor will be granted
permission to enter for up to 6 months.
HV 10.2. An S2 Healthcare Visitor will be granted
permission to stay for up to 6 months.
HV 10.3. The grant will be subject to all the following
conditions:
(a) no access to public funds; and
(b) no work; and
(c) no study.
(d) DELETED

Cancellation and curtailment
HV 11.1. An S2 Healthcare Visitor’s entry clearance,
permission to enter or permission to stay may be
cancelled where the decision maker is satisfied that it is
proportionate to cancel that entry clearance or
permission where:
(a) the cancellation is justified on grounds of public
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-s2-healthcare-visitor

Page 8 of 10

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix S2 Healthcare Visitor - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:33 am

policy, public security or public health, on the basis
of the person’s conduct on or before 11pm on 31
December 2020, in accordance with regulation 27 of
the EEA Regulations, irrespective of whether the
EEA Regulations apply to that person (except that in
applying this provision for an “EEA decision” read “a
decision under paragraph HV 11.1 of Appendix S2
Healthcare Visitor”); or
(b) the cancellation is justified on the ground that it is
conducive to the public good, on the basis of the
person’s conduct after 11pm on 31 December 2020;
or
(c) the cancellation is justified on grounds that, in
relation to an application made under this Appendix,
and whether or not to the applicant’s knowledge,
false or misleading information, representations or
documents were submitted (including false or
misleading information submitted to any person to
obtain a document used in support of the
application) and the information, representation or
documentation was material to the decision to grant
the applicant entry clearance, permission to enter or
permission to stay under this Appendix; or
(d) they cease to meet the requirements of Appendix
S2 Healthcare Visitor; or
(e) they have breached a condition of their
permission as set out in HV 10.3. unless entry
clearance or further permission was granted in the
knowledge of the breach.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-s2-healthcare-visitor

Page 9 of 10

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix S2 Healthcare Visitor - Guidance - GOV.UK

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-s2-healthcare-visitor

07/05/2026, 11:33 am

© Crown copyright

Page 10 of 10

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Scale-up - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix Scale-up
Appendix Scale-up
The Scale-up route is for talented individuals recruited
by a UK Scale-up Sponsor, who have the skills needed
to enable the Scale-up business to continue growing.
The person must have a high-skilled job offer from a
qualifying Scale-up business at the required salary level.
A dependent partner and dependent children can apply
on this route.
The Scale-up route is a route to settlement.

Validity requirements for a Scale-up
Worker
SCU 1.1. A person applying for entry clearance or
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-scale-up

Page 1 of 31

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Scale-up - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

permission to stay as a Scale-up Worker must apply
online on the gov.uk website on the specified form as
follows:
(a) for applicants outside the UK, form “Scale-up
visa”; or
(b) for applicants inside the UK, form “Scale-up”.
SCU 1.2. An application for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a Scale-up Worker must meet all
the following validity requirements:
(a) any fee and Immigration Health Charge must
have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other travel document which satisfactorily
establishes their identity and nationality; and
(d) if the applicant is making a sponsored
application, they must have a Certificate of
Sponsorship that was issued to them by their
Sponsor no more than 3 months before the date of
application.
SCU 1.3. The applicant must be aged 18 or over on the
date of application.
SCU 1.4. If the applicant has in the last 12 months
before the date of application received an award from a
Government or international scholarship agency
covering both fees and living costs for study in the UK,
they must provide written consent to the application
from that Government or agency.
SCU 1.5. If applying for permission to stay, the applicant
must be in the UK on the date of application.
SCU 1.5ZA. If applying for permission to stay, the
applicant must not have, or have last been granted,
permission:
(a) as a Visitor; or
(b) as a Short-term Student; or
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-scale-up

Page 2 of 31

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Scale-up - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

(c) as a Parent of a Child Student; or
(d) as a Seasonal Worker; or
(e) as a Domestic Worker in a Private Household; or
(f) outside the Immigration Rules.
SCU 1.5A. An applicant who is applying for permission
to stay and has, or last had, permission as a Student,
must fulfil one of the Conditions A, B or C below on the
date of application:
(a) Condition A: the applicant must have completed
the course of study for which the Confirmation of
Acceptance for Studies was assigned (or a course to
which ST 27.3 of Appendix Student applies); or
(b) Condition B:
(i) the applicant must be studying a full-time
course of study at degree level or above with a
higher education provider which has a track
record of compliance; and
(ii) the Certificate of Sponsorship in SCU 1.2(d)
must have a start date no earlier than the course
completion date; or
(c) Condition C:
(i) the applicant must be studying a full-time
course of study leading to the award of a PhD
with a higher education provider which has a
track record of compliance; and
(ii) the Certificate of Sponsorship in SCU 1.2(d)
must have a start date no earlier than 24 months
after the start date of that course.
SCU 1.6. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for the Scale-up route may be
rejected as invalid and not considered.

Suitability requirements for a Scale-up
Worker
SCU 2.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-scale-up

Page 3 of 31

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Scale-up - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

Part Suitability.
SCU 2.2. If applying for permission to stay the applicant
must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.

Eligibility requirements for a Scale-up
Worker
Entry requirements for a Scale-up Worker
SCU 3.1. A person seeking to come to the UK as a
Scale-up Worker must apply for and obtain entry
clearance as a Scale-up Worker before they arrive in
the UK.
SCU 3.2. A person applying for entry clearance as a
Scale-up Worker must, if Appendix Tuberculosis
applies, provide a valid medical certificate confirming
that they have undergone screening for active
pulmonary tuberculosis and that this tuberculosis is not
present in them.

Points requirement for a Scale-up
Worker
SCU 4.1. The applicant must be awarded 70 points in
the table below. An applicant may only be awarded
points from one of the first two rows of the table. All
applicants must meet the requirements in the final two
rows of the table.
SCU 4.2. An applicant may only make a Sponsored
Application and score 50 points in the first row of the
table if the conditions for making an Unsponsored
Application in SCU 4.3. are not met.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-scale-up

Page 4 of 31

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Scale-up - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

SCU 4.3. An applicant must make an Unsponsored
Application and score 50 points in the second row of the
table if they have been employed as a Scale-up Worker
by a sponsor for at least 6 months in a previous
permission on the Scale-up route and –
(a) the applicant has permission as a Scale-up
Worker on the date of application; or
(b) the applicant last had permission as a Scale-up
Worker and
(i) if the applicant is applying for entry clearance,
that permission expired less than 6 months
before the date of application; or
(ii) if the applicant is applying for permission to
stay, the Exceptions for overstayers section of
Part Suitability applies.
Type of
application

Relevant
requirements to
be met

Relevant
rules

Points

Sponsored
Application

Sponsorship

SCU 5.1
to SCU
5.6

50

Job at an
appropriate skill
level

SCU 6.1
to SCU
6.4

Appropriate salary

SCU 7.1
to SCU
7.6

Unsponsored
Application

UK earnings during
most recent
permission on the
Scale-up route

SCU 8.1
to SCU
8.7

50

All
applications

English language
requirement at
level B2 or, where
the applicant’s
most recent

SCU 9.1
to SCU
9.3

10

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-scale-up

Page 5 of 31

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Scale-up - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

permission was as
a Scale-up worker
and which was
granted subject to
a requirement at
level B1, level B1
All
applications

Financial
requirement

SCU
10.1 to
SCU
10.4

10

Sponsored Application
Sponsorship requirement for Sponsored
Application
SCU 5.1. The applicant must have a valid Certificate of
Sponsorship for the job they are planning to do, which
must:
(a) confirm the applicant’s name, that they are being
sponsored as a Scale-up Worker, details of the job
and salary the Sponsor is offering them and PAYE
details; and
(b) include a start date for the job, stated by the
Sponsor, which is no more than 3 months after the
date of application; and
(c) confirm the applicant is expected to work for the
Sponsor for at least the first 6 months of their
permission; and
(d) not have been used in a previous application
which was either granted or refused (but can have
been used in a previous application which was
rejected as invalid, made void or withdrawn); and
(e) not have been withdrawn by the Sponsor or
cancelled by the Home Office; and
(f) confirm whether or not the Academic Technology
Approval Scheme (ATAS) requirement in Appendix
ATAS applies.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-scale-up

Page 6 of 31

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Scale-up - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

SCU 5.2. The sponsor must be authorised by the Home
Office to sponsor the job in question under the Scale-up
route.
SCU 5.3. The Sponsor must be listed as A-rated on the
Home Office’s register of licensed sponsors.
SCU 5.4. The decision maker must not have reasonable
grounds to believe the job the applicant is being
sponsored to do:
(a) does not exist; or
(b) is a sham; or
(c) has been created mainly so the applicant can
apply for entry clearance or permission to stay.
SCU 5.5. The decision maker must not have reasonable
grounds to believe the job the applicant is being
sponsored to do amounts to:
(a) the hire of the applicant to a third party who is not
the Sponsor to fill a position with that party, whether
temporary or permanent; or
(b) contract work to undertake an ongoing routine
role or to provide an ongoing routine service for a
third party who is not the sponsor, regardless of the
nature or length of any arrangement between the
sponsor and the third party.
SCU 5.6. The decision maker must not have reasonable
grounds to believe the job the applicant is being
sponsored to do does not comply with the National
Minimum Wage Regulations or the Working Time
Regulations.
Job at an appropriate skill level requirement for
Sponsored Application
SCU 6.1. The applicant must be sponsored for a job in a
SOC 2020 occupation code listed in Table 2 or Table 3
of Appendix Skilled Occupations.
SCU 6.2. The sponsor must have chosen an
appropriate SOC 2020 occupation code, and the
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-scale-up

Page 7 of 31

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Scale-up - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

decision maker must not have reasonable grounds to
believe the sponsor has chosen a less appropriate SOC
2020 occupation code for any of the following reasons:
(a) the most appropriate SOC 2020 occupation code
is not eligible under the Scale-up route; or
(b) the most appropriate SOC 2020 occupation code
has a higher going rate than the proposed salary.
SCU 6.3. To support the assessment in SCU 6.2, the
decision maker may, in particular, consider:
(a) whether the Sponsor has shown a genuine need
for the job as described; and
(b) whether the applicant has the appropriate skills,
qualifications and experience needed to do the job
as described; and
(c) the sponsor’s history of compliance with the
immigration system including, but not limited to,
paying its sponsored workers appropriately; and
(d) any additional information from the sponsor.
SCU 6.4. If the ATAS requirement in Appendix ATAS
applies, the applicant must provide a valid ATAS
certificate.
Appropriate salary requirement for Sponsored
Application
SCU 7.1. The salary for the job for which the applicant is
being sponsored must equal or exceed all of the
following:
(a) £39,100 per year; and
(b) the going rate for the SOC 2020 occupation
code.
(c) DELETED.
SCU 7.2. Salary only includes guaranteed basic gross
pay (before income tax and including employee pension
and national insurance contributions).
SCU 7.3. Salary does not include other pay and
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-scale-up

Page 8 of 31

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Scale-up - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

benefits, such as any of the following:
(a) pay which cannot be guaranteed because the
nature of the job means that hours fluctuate; or
(b) additional pay such as shift, overtime or bonus
pay, (whether or not it is guaranteed); or
(c) employer pension and employer national
insurance contributions; or
(d) any allowances, such as accommodation or cost
of living allowances; or
(e) in-kind benefits, such as equity shares, health
insurance, school or university fees, company cars
or food; or
(f) one-off payments, such as ‘golden hellos’; or
(g) any payments relating to immigration costs, such
as the fee or Immigration Health Charge; or
(h) payments to cover business expenses, including
(but not limited to) travel to and from the applicant’s
country of residence, equipment, clothing, travel or
subsistence.
SCU 7.4. If the applicant is being sponsored to work
more than 48 hours a week, subject to SCU 7.4A, only
the salary for the first 48 hours a week will be
considered towards the salary requirements set out in
SCU 7.1 (a).
For example, an applicant who works 60 hours a week
for £15 per hour will be considered to have a salary of
£37,440 (£15 x 48 x 52) per year and not £46,800 (£15
x 60 x 52).
SCU 7.4A. If the applicant is being sponsored to work a
pattern where the regular hours are not the same each
week, resulting in uneven pay:
(a) work in excess of 48 hours in some weeks can
be considered towards the salary threshold of
£39,100, providing the average over a regular cycle
(which can be less than, but not more than, 17
weeks) is not more than 48 hours a week; and
(b) any unpaid rest weeks will count towards the
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-scale-up

Page 9 of 31

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Scale-up - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

average when considering whether the salary
thresholds are met; and
(c) any unpaid rest weeks will not count as absences
from employment for the purpose of paragraph SUI
36.1. in Part Suitability of these rules.
For example, an applicant who works a pattern of 60
hours a week for £15 per hour for two weeks, followed
by an unpaid rest week, will be considered to work 40
hours a week on average and have a salary of just
£31,200 (£15 x 40 x 52) per year.
SCU 7.5. Going rates in Table 2 of Appendix Skilled
Occupations are based on a 37.5-hour week and will be
pro-rated to the applicant’s working pattern, as follows:
(a) (the going rate for the SOC 2020 occupation
code stated in Table 2 of Appendix Skilled
Occupations) x (the number of weekly working hours
stated by the sponsor ÷ 37.5)
(b) the applicant’s full weekly hours will be included
when checking their salary against the going rate,
even if they work more than 48 hours a week.
SCU 7.6. If the requirements in SCU 5.1. to SCU 7.5.
are met, the applicant will be awarded 50 points for
meeting the Sponsored Application requirements.
Genuineness requirement for a Scale-Up Worker
SCU 7A.1. The applicant must genuinely intend, and be
able, to undertake the role for which they are being
sponsored.

Unsponsored Application
UK earnings in most recent grant of permission as a
Scale-up Worker requirement for Unsponsored
Application
SCU 8.1. The applicant must, during at least 50% of
their most recent permission as a Scale-up Worker (for
example, an applicant with 2 years’ permission as a
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-scale-up

Page 10 of 31

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Scale-up - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

Scale-up Worker must have had this level of earnings
during at least 12 months of that permission), have had
monthly PAYE earnings in the UK equivalent to at least:
(a) £39,100 per year; or
(b) £36,300 per year if their most recent permission
on the route was on the basis of a Certificate of
Sponsorship assigned between 4 April 2024 and 21
July 2025; or
(c) £34,600 per year if their most recent permission
on the route was on the basis of a Certificate of
Sponsorship assigned between 12 April 2023 and 3
April 2024; or
(d) £33,000 per year if their most recent permission
on the route was on the basis of a Certificate of
Sponsorship assigned on or before 11 April 2023.
SCU 8.2. For the purpose of meeting the requirement in
SCU 8.1, periods of absence from work for any of the
following reasons will be treated as periods during which
the applicant was paid at the required level:
(a) statutory maternity, paternity, parental, or shared
parental leave; or
(b) statutory adoption leave; or
(c) sick leave
Providing at the time the absence starts the applicant’s
job had PAYE earnings equivalent to at least:
(i) £39,100 per year; or
(ii) £36,300 per year if their most recent permission
on the route was on the basis of a Certificate of
Sponsorship assigned between 4 April 2024 and 21
July 2025; or
(iii) £34,600 per year if their most recent permission
on the route was on the basis of a Certificate of
Sponsorship assigned between 12 April 2023 and 3
April 2024; or
(iv) £33,000 per year if their most recent permission
on the route was on the basis of a Certificate of
Sponsorship assigned on or before 11 April 2023.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-scale-up

Page 11 of 31

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Scale-up - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

For example, an applicant with 2 years’ permission, who
spent 6 months on the above types of leave during a 2year permission as a Scale-up Worker, must have had
PAYE earnings in the UK equivalent to the level stated
in SCU 8.1. per year during at least 6 months of the
remaining 18 months of that permission.
SCU 8.3. PAYE means the guaranteed basic gross pay
(before income tax and including employee pension and
national insurance contributions), recorded through
PAYE.
SCU 8.4. Earnings do not include other sources of
income, such as any of the following:
(a) earnings from self-employment; or
(b) earnings from outside the UK; or
(c) payments not recorded through PAYE; or
(d) employer pension and employer national
insurance contributions; or
(e) income from savings, investments, property,
inheritance, gambling or competitions.
SCU 8.5. The decision maker must not have reasonable
grounds to believe the PAYE earnings, or any part of the
PAYE earnings, the applicant is relying on have been
fabricated or inflated or do not relate to genuine
employment.
SCU 8.6. To support the assessment in SCU 8.5, the
decision maker may in particular consider any of the
following:
(a) whether the business from which the earnings
are claimed can be shown to exist and be lawfully
and genuinely trading; and
(b) any payments made by the applicant to other
parties; and
(c) any additional information.
SCU 8.7. If the requirements in SCU 8.1. to SCU 8.6.
are met, the applicant will be awarded 50 points for
meeting the Unsponsored Application requirements.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-scale-up

Page 12 of 31

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Scale-up - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

All Applications by Scale-up Workers
English language requirement for Scale-up Worker
SCU 9.1. Unless an exemption applies, the applicant
must show English language ability on the Common
European Framework of Reference for Languages in all
4 components (reading, writing, speaking and listening)
to at least the level specified by SCU 4.3.
SCU 9.2. The applicant must show they meet the
English language requirement as specified in Appendix
English Language.
SCU 9.3. If the requirements in SCU 9.1. and SCU 9.2.
are met, the applicant will be awarded 10 points for
meeting the English language requirement.
Financial requirement for Scale-up Worker
SCU 10.1. If the applicant is applying for permission to
stay and has been in the UK with permission for 12
months or longer on the date of application, they will
meet the financial requirement and do not need to show
funds.
SCU 10.2. If the applicant is applying for entry
clearance, or has been in the UK for less than 12
months on the date of application, either:
(a) the applicant must have funds of at least £1,270;
or
(b) if the applicant is applying as a sponsored
applicant, the applicant’s A-rated sponsor must
confirm on the Certificate of Sponsorship that they
will, if necessary, maintain and accommodate the
applicant up to the end of the first month of their
employment, to an amount of at least £1,270.
SCU 10.3. If SCU 10.2.(a) applies, the applicant must
show that they have held the required funds for a 28day period and must show funds as specified in
Appendix Finance.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-scale-up

Page 13 of 31

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Scale-up - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

SCU 10.4. If the requirements in SCU 10.1 to SCU 10.3.
are met, the applicant will be awarded 10 points for
meeting the financial requirement.

Decision on an application as a Scale-up
worker
SCU 11.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all the
suitability and the relevant eligibility requirements for a
Scale-up Worker are met, the application will be
granted, otherwise the application will be refused.
SCU 11.2. If the application is refused the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.

Period and conditions of grant for a
Scale-up Worker
SCU 12.1. If the applicant was awarded 50 points for
meeting the Sponsored Application requirements, they
will be granted entry clearance or permission to stay for
2 years.
SCU 12.2. If the applicant was awarded 50 points for
meeting the Sponsored Application requirements, the
grant will be subject to all the following conditions:
(a) no access to public funds; and
(b) for the first 6 months of their permission, the
applicant must be employed in the job for which the
applicant is being sponsored; and
(c) in addition to (b), work (including selfemployment and voluntary work) is permitted,
except for work as a professional sportsperson
(including as a sports coach); and
(d) study is permitted, subject to the ATAS condition
in Appendix ATAS.
(e) DELETED
SCU 12.3. If the applicant was awarded 50 points for
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-scale-up

Page 14 of 31

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Scale-up - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

meeting the Unsponsored Application requirements,
they will be granted entry clearance or permission to
stay for 3 years.
SCU 12.4. If the applicant was awarded 50 points for
meeting the Unsponsored Application requirements, the
grant will be subject to all the following conditions:
(a) no access to public funds; and
(b) work (including self-employment and voluntary
work) is permitted, except for work as a professional
sportsperson (including as a sports coach); and
(c) study is permitted, subject to the ATAS condition
in Appendix ATAS.
(d) DELETED

Settlement as a Scale-up Worker
Validity requirements for settlement as a Scale-up
Worker
SCU 13.1. A person applying for settlement as a Scaleup Worker must apply online on the gov.uk website on
the specified form, “Settle in the UK in various
immigration categories: form SET(O)”.
SCU 13.2. An application for settlement as a Scale-up
Worker must meet all the following requirements:
(a) any fee must have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided either a
passport or other travel document which
satisfactorily establishes their identity and
nationality; and
(d) the applicant must be in the UK on the date of
application.
SCU 13.3. The applicant must have, or have last been
granted, permission as a Scale-up Worker.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-scale-up

Page 15 of 31

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Scale-up - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

SCU 13.4. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for settlement as a Scale-up
Worker may be rejected as invalid and not considered.
Suitability requirements for settlement as a Scale-up
Worker
SCU 14.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
SCU 14.2. The applicant must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.
Eligibility requirements for settlement as a Scale-up
Worker
Qualifying period requirement for settlement as a
Scale-up Worker
SCU 15.1. The applicant must have spent a continuous
period of 5 years in the UK.
SCU 15.2. The 5-year continuous period must consist of
time with permission (not as a dependant) on any of, or
any combination of, the following routes:
(a) Scale-up; or
(b) Skilled Worker; or
(c) Global Talent; or
(d) Innovator; or
(e) T2 Minister of Religion; or
(f) International Sportsperson; or
(g) Representative of an Overseas Business; or
(h) Tier 1, other than Tier 1 (Graduate
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-scale-up

Page 16 of 31

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Scale-up - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

Entrepreneur).
Continuous residence requirement for settlement as
a Scale-up Worker
SCU 16.1. The applicant must meet the continuous
residence requirement as set out in Appendix
Continuous Residence during the period in SCU 15.1.
English language requirement for settlement as a
Scale-up Worker
SCU 16A.1. Where the date of application is on or after
26 March 2027, the applicant must, unless an
exemption applies, show English language ability on the
Common European Framework of Reference for
Languages in speaking and listening to at least level B2.
SCU 16.A.2. The applicant must show they meet the
English language requirement as specified in Appendix
English Language.
Knowledge of life in the UK requirement for
settlement as a Scale-up Worker
SCU 17.1. Unless an exemption applies, the applicant
must meet the knowledge of Life in the UK requirement
as set out in Appendix KOL UK.
UK earnings in most recent permission requirement
SCU 18.1. On the date of application, the applicant must
be in employment in the UK with a salary paid through
PAYE of at least:
(a) £39,100 per year; or
(b) £36,300 per year if their most recent permission
on the route was on the basis of a Certificate of
Sponsorship assigned between 4 April 2024 and 21
July 2025; or
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-scale-up

Page 17 of 31

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Scale-up - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

(c) £34,600 per year if their most recent permission
on the route was on the basis of a Certificate of
Sponsorship assigned between 12 April 2023 and 3
April 2024; or
(d) £33,000 per year if their most recent permission
on the route was on the basis of a Certificate of
Sponsorship assigned on or before 11 April 2023.
SCU 18.2. The applicant must, during at least 24
months of the three years immediately before the date
of application, have had monthly PAYE earnings in the
UK equivalent to at least:
(a) £39,100 per year; or
(b) £36,300 per year if their most recent permission
on the route was on the basis of a Certificate of
Sponsorship assigned between 4 April 2024 and 21
July 2025; or
(c) £34,600 per year if their most recent permission
on the route was on the basis of a Certificate of
Sponsorship assigned between 12 April 2023 and 3
April 2024; or
(d) £33,000 per year if their most recent permission
on the route was on the basis of a Certificate of
Sponsorship assigned on or before 11 April 2023.
SCU 18.3. For the purpose of meeting the requirement
in SCU 18.2, periods of absence from work, for any of
the following reasons will be treated as periods during
which the applicant was paid at the required level:
(a) statutory maternity, paternity, parental, or shared
parental leave; or
(b) statutory adoption leave; or
(c) sick leave.
Providing at the time the absence starts the applicant’s
job had PAYE earnings equivalent to:
(i) £39,100 per year; or
(ii) £36,300 per year if their most recent permission
on the route was on the basis of a Certificate of
Sponsorship assigned between 4 April 2024 and 21
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-scale-up

Page 18 of 31

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Scale-up - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

July 2025; or
(iii) £34,600 per year if their most recent permission
on the route was on the basis of a Certificate of
Sponsorship assigned between 12 April 2023 and 3
April 2024; or
(iv) £33,000 per year if their most recent permission
on the route was on the basis of a Certificate of
Sponsorship assigned on or before 11 April 2023.
For example, an applicant, who spent 6 months on the
above types of leave during their last 3-year’s
permission as a Scale-up Worker, must have had
monthly PAYE earnings in the UK equivalent to at least
£39,100 per year during at least 18 months of the
remaining 30 months of that permission.
SCU 18.4. Earnings only include guaranteed basic
gross pay (before income tax and including employee
pension and national insurance contributions), recorded
through PAYE.
SCU 18.5. Earnings do not include other sources of
income, such as any of the following:
(a) earnings from self-employment; or
(b) earnings from outside the UK; or
(c) payments not recorded through PAYE; or
(d) employer pension and employer national
insurance contributions; or
(e) income from savings, investments, property,
inheritance, gambling or competitions.
SCU 18.6. The decision maker must not have
reasonable grounds to believe the PAYE earnings the
applicant is relying on have been inflated or fabricated
or do not relate to genuine employment.
SCU 18.7. To support the assessment in SCU 18.6, the
decision maker may in particular consider any of the
following:
(a) whether the business from which the earnings
are claimed can be shown to exist and be lawfully
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-scale-up

Page 19 of 31

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Scale-up - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

and genuinely trading; and
(b) any payments made by the applicant to other
parties; and
(c) any other relevant information.

Decision on an application for
settlement as a Scale-up Worker
SCU 19.1. If the decision maker is satisfied all the
suitability and eligibility requirements for settlement as a
Scale-up Worker are met, the applicant will be granted
settlement, otherwise the application will be refused.
SCU 19.2. If the application is refused, the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.

Dependent partner (“partner”) and
dependent child (“child”) on the Scaleup route
Validity requirements for a partner or child on the
Scale-up route
SCU 20.1. A person applying for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a partner or child on the Scale-up
Worker route must apply online on the gov.uk website
on the specified form as follows:
Location of Partner or
Child

Specified form

Applicant outside the UK

• Dependant partner
visa
• Dependant child visa

Applicant inside the UK

• Dependant partner
• Dependant child

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-scale-up

Page 20 of 31

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Scale-up - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

SCU 20.2. An application for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a partner or child of a Scale-up
Worker must meet all the following requirements:
(a) any fee and Immigration Health Charge must
have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other travel document which satisfactorily
establishes their identity and nationality; and
(d) the applicant must be applying as partner or child
of a person (P) who:
(i) has made a valid application for entry
clearance or permission to stay on the Scale-up
route that has not been decided; or
(ii) has entry clearance or permission to stay on
the Scale-up route; or
(iii) is settled or has become a British citizen,
providing that P had permission on the Scale-up
route when they settled and the applicant either
had permission as their partner or child at that
time, or the applicant is applying as a child of P
and the applicant was born in the UK before P
settled.
SCU 20.3. A person applying as a partner must be aged
18 or over on the date of application.
SCU 20.4. If applying for permission to stay, the
applicant must be in the UK on the date of application.
SCU 20.4ZA. If applying for permission to stay, the
applicant must not have, or have last been granted,
permission:
(a) as a Visitor; or
(b) as a Short-term Student; or
(c) as a Parent of a Child Student; or
(d) as a Seasonal Worker; or
(e) as a Domestic Worker in a Private Household; or
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-scale-up

Page 21 of 31

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Scale-up - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

(f) outside the Immigration Rules.
SCU 20.4A. An applicant who is applying for permission
to stay and has, or last had, permission as a Student,
must fulfil one of the Conditions A or B below on the
date of application:
(a) Condition A: the applicant must have completed
the course of study for which the Confirmation of
Acceptance for Studies was assigned (or a course to
which ST 27.3 of Appendix Student applies); or
(b) Condition B: the applicant must:
(i) be studying a full-time course of study leading
to the award of a PhD with a higher education
provider which has a track record of compliance;
and
(ii) have completed at least 24 months of study
on that course.
SCU 20.5. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements as partner or child on the Scale-up
route may be rejected as invalid and not considered.
Suitability requirements for a partner or child on the
Scale-up route
SCU 21.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
SCU 21.2. If applying for permission to stay the
applicant must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.
Eligibility requirements for a partner and child on
the Scale-up route

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-scale-up

Page 22 of 31

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Scale-up - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

Entry requirement for a partner and child on the
Scale-up route
SCU 22.1. A person seeking to come to the UK as a
partner or child of a Scale-up Worker must apply for and
obtain entry clearance as a partner or child of a Scaleup Worker before they arrive in the UK.
SCU 22.2. A person applying for entry clearance as the
partner or child on the Scale-up router must, if Appendix
Tuberculosis applies, provide a valid medical certificate
confirming that they have undergone screening for
active pulmonary tuberculosis and that this tuberculosis
is not present in them.
Relationship requirements for a partner on the
Scale-up route
SCU 23.1. The applicant must be the partner of a
person (P) and one of the following must apply:
(a) P has permission on the Scale-up route; or
(b) P is, at the same time, applying for (and is
granted) permission on the Scale-up route; or
(c) P is settled or has become a British citizen,
providing P had permission on the Scale-up route
when they settled, and the applicant had permission
as P’s partner at that time.
SCU 23.2. The requirements of Appendix Relationship
with Partner must be met.
SCU 23.3. DELETED.
SCU 23.4. DELETED.
Relationship requirement for a dependent child on
the Scale-up route
SCU 24.1. DELETED.
SCU 24.2. DELETED.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-scale-up

Page 23 of 31

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Scale-up - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

SCU 24.3. DELETED.
Age requirement for a dependent child on the Scaleup route
SCU 25.1. DELETED.
SCU 25.2. DELETED.
Care requirement for a dependent child on the
Scale-up route
SCU 26.1. DELETED.
Requirements for a dependent child on the Scale-up
route
SCU 26A.1. The applicant must meet the following
requirements for a dependent child in Appendix
Children:
(a) relationship requirement: entry clearance and
permission to stay; and
(b) care requirement; and
(c) age and independent life requirement.
Financial requirement for a partner or child on the
Scale-up route
SCU 27.1. If the applicant is applying for permission to
stay and has been living in the UK with permission for
12 months or longer on the date of application, they will
meet the financial requirement and do not need to show
funds.
SCU 27.2. If an applicant is applying for entry clearance,
or has been living in the UK for less than 12 months on
the date of application, either:
(a) funds of at least the amount required in SCU
27.4. must be held collectively by one or more of the
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-scale-up

Page 24 of 31

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Scale-up - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

following:
(i) the applicant; and
(ii) the Scale-up Worker (P); and
(iii) if the applicant is applying as a child, their
parent who is lawfully present in the UK or being
granted entry clearance, or permission to stay, at
the same time; or
(b) the Scale-up Worker’s A-rated sponsor must
certify that they will, if necessary, maintain and
accommodate the partner and/or any child as well
as the Scale-up Worker, up to the end of the first
month of each of their grants of permission, to at
least the amounts required in SCU 27.4.
SCU 27.3. An applicant may only rely on the option in
SCU 27.2(b) if the date of application is at least one
calendar month before the end of the first 6 months of
the Scale-up Worker’s first grant of permission on the
Scale-up route.
SCU 27.4. The funds required are:
(a) at least £285 for a partner in the UK or applying
for entry clearance; and
(b) at least £315 for the first child in the UK or
applying for entry clearance; and
(c) at least £200 for each additional child in the UK
or applying for entry clearance.
SCU 27.5. If SCU 27.2(a) applies, the funds held by the
applicant must be held in addition to any funds required
for the Scale-up Worker to meet the financial
requirement and any other dependants in the UK or
applying at the same time.
SCU 27.6. If SCU 27.2(a) applies, the funds must have
been held for a 28-day period and as set out in
Appendix Finance.
Decision on an application as a partner or child on
the Scale-up route
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-scale-up

Page 25 of 31

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Scale-up - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

SCU 28.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all the
suitability and eligibility requirements are met for a
partner or child of a Scale-up Worker, the application will
be granted, otherwise the application will be refused.
SCU 28.2. If the application is refused the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.
Period and conditions of grant for a partner and
child on the Scale-up route
SCU 29.1. A partner will be granted:
(a) entry clearance or permission to stay which ends
on the same date as their partner’s permission as a
Scale-up Worker; or
(b) 3 years’ entry clearance or permission if the
Scale-up Worker was (or is being) granted
settlement as a Scale-up Worker.
SCU 29.2. A child will be granted permission which ends
on the same date as whichever of their parents’
permission ends first, unless both parents have (or are
being granted) settlement or British Citizenship, in which
case the child will be granted permission for 3 years.
SCU 29.3. The grant will be subject to all the following
conditions:
(a) no access to public funds; and
(b) work (including self-employment and voluntary
work) permitted; except work as a professional
sportsperson (including as a sports coach); and
(c) study is permitted, subject to the ATAS condition
in Appendix ATAS (if the study will commence when
the person is aged over 18).
(d) DELETED

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-scale-up

Page 26 of 31

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Scale-up - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

Settlement for a partner or child on the
Scale-up route
Validity requirements for settlement as a partner or
child on the Scale-up route
SCU 30.1. A person applying for settlement as a partner
or child of a Scale-up Worker must apply online on the
gov.uk website on the specified form, “Settle in the UK
in various immigration categories: form SET(O)”.
SCU 30.2. An application for settlement as a partner or
child of a Scale-up Worker must meet all the following
requirements:
(a) any fee must have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other travel document which satisfactorily
establishes their identity and nationality; and
(d) the applicant must be in the UK on the date of
application; and
(e) the applicant must be applying as a partner or
child of a person (P) who:
(i) has made a valid application for settlement in
the UK on the Scale-up route and that
application has not been decided; or
(ii) is settled or has become a British citizen,
provided that P had permission on the Scale-up
route when they settled and the applicant either
had permission as their partner or child at that
time, or the applicant is applying as a child of P
and the applicant was born in the UK before P
settled.
SCU 30.3. An application which does not meet the
validity requirements for settlement as a partner or child
of a Scale-up Worker may be rejected as invalid and not
considered.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-scale-up

Page 27 of 31

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Scale-up - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

Suitability requirements for settlement as a
dependent partner or dependent child on the Scaleup route
SCU 31.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
SCU 31.2. The applicant must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.
Eligibility requirements for settlement as a
dependent partner or dependent child on the Scaleup route
Relationship requirement for settlement as a
dependent partner or dependent child of a Scale-up
Worker
SCU 32.1. The applicant must be the partner or child of
a person (P) where one of the following applies:
(a) P is, at the same time, being granted settlement
as a Scale-up Worker; or
(b) P is settled in the UK or has become a British
citizen, providing P had permission as a Scale-up
Worker when they settled and the applicant either:
(i) had permission as P’s partner or child at that
time; or
(ii) is applying as a child of P and was born in the
UK before P settled.
SCU 32.2. The applicant must either:
(a) have last been granted permission as a partner
or child of the person (P) in SCU 32.1; or
(b) have been born in the UK and be applying as a
child of the person (P) in SCU 32.1.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-scale-up

Page 28 of 31

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Scale-up - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

SCU 32.3. If applying as a partner, the requirements of
Appendix Relationship with Partner must be met.
SCU 32.4. If applying as a child, the applicant must
meet the relationship requirement for settlement in
Appendix Children.
Age requirement for settlement as a dependent
child on the Scale-up route
SCU 33.1. DELETED.
SCU 33.2. DELETED.
Care requirement for settlement as a dependent
child of a Scale-up Worker
SCU 34.1. DELETED.
Requirements for settlement as a dependent child
on the Scale-up route
SCU 34A.1. The applicant must meet the following
requirements for a dependent child in Appendix
Children:
(a) care requirement; and
(b) age and independent life requirement.
Qualifying period requirement for settlement as a
partner on the Scale-up route
SCU 35.1. The applicant must have spent a continuous
period of 5 years in the UK with permission as a partner
of the person (P) in SCU 32.1.
Continuous residence requirement for settlement as
a partner on the Scale-up route
SCU 36.1. The applicant must meet the continuous
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-scale-up

Page 29 of 31

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Scale-up - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

residence requirement as set out in Appendix
Continuous Residence during the period in SCU 35.1.
English language requirement for settlement as a
partner or child on the Scale-up route
SCU 37.1. Unless an exemption applies, the applicant
must:
(a) Where the date of application is before 26 March
2027, the applicant must, unless an exemption
applies, show English language ability on the
Common European Framework of Reference for
Languages in speaking and listening to at least level
B1; or
(b) Where the date of application is on or after 26
March 2027, the applicant must, unless an
exemption applies, show English language ability on
the Common European Framework of Reference for
Languages in speaking and listening to at least level
B2.
SCU 37.2. The applicant must show they meet the
English language requirement as specified in Appendix
English Language.
Knowledge of life in the UK requirement for
settlement as a partner or child on the Scale-up
route
SCU 38.1. Unless an exemption applies, the applicant
must meet the knowledge of Life in the UK requirement
as set out in Appendix KOL UK.
Decision on an application for settlement as a
partner or child on the Scale-up route
SCU 39.1. If the decision maker is satisfied all the
suitability and eligibility requirements are met for
settlement as a partner or child of a Scale-up Worker,
the application will be granted settlement, otherwise the
application will be refused.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-scale-up

Page 30 of 31

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Scale-up - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

SCU 39.2. If the application is refused the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-scale-up

© Crown copyright

Page 31 of 31

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Settlement Family Life - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:05 pm

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix Settlement
Family Life
This route is for a person who has
permission to stay as a partner or parent
(or has had a combination of the two) under
Appendix FM, and who is eligible to settle
in the UK after a qualifying period of 10
years.
The person may also be able to count time with
permission on other routes towards the 10 year
qualifying period, if certain conditions are met.
Alternatively, partners, parents and their dependent
children may qualify for settlement on the basis of 10
years Long Residence in the UK, under paragraphs
276A to 276D or 298 of the rules.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-settlement-family-life

Page 1 of 15

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Settlement Family Life - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:05 pm

Where a person has permission as a partner and the
relationship has broken down due to domestic abuse,
the applicant may be able to qualify for settlement as a
victim of domestic abuse under Appendix FM.
Where a person has permission as a partner and their
partner has died, the applicant may be able to qualify for
settlement as a bereaved partner under Appendix FM.
Dependent children of a partner or parent who is
applying to settle on this route may also qualify for
settlement under these Rules.
Children born in the UK where a parent is settled in the
UK will be British citizens by birth. There are registration
routes for British Citizenship for children born in the UK
before their parent is settled: either once a parent is
granted settlement or if the child lives in the UK for the
first 10 years of their life. Other children may also apply
for registration as a British citizen at the Home
Secretary’s discretion: Registration as a British citizen:
children - GOV.UK (www.gov.uk).

Settlement as a partner or parent based
on a qualifying period of 10 years
Validity requirements for settlement as a partner or
parent based on a qualifying period of 10 years
SETF 1.1. A person who is applying for settlement must
apply online on the gov.uk website on the specified form
“Settlement as a partner or parent.”.
SETF 1.2. An application for settlement must meet all
the following requirements:
(a) any fee must have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other travel document which satisfactorily
establishes their identity and nationality; and
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-settlement-family-life

Page 2 of 15

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Settlement Family Life - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:05 pm

(d) the applicant must be in the UK on the date of
application.
SETF 1.3. The applicant must have, or have last been
granted, permission as a partner or parent under
Appendix FM.
SETF 1.4. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for settlement may be rejected as
invalid and not considered.

Suitability Requirements for settlement
as a partner or parent based on a
qualifying period of 10 years
SETF 2.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
SETF 2.2. DELETED.
SETF 2.3. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
SUI 5.3. of Part Suitability, unless the applicant has
completed a qualifying period of 10 years with
permission as set out in SETF 2.6 and the applicant has
spent at least 5 years with such permission since the
end of their sentence.
SETF 2.4. Where any of the following occur during the
applicant’s qualifying period for settlement, the applicant
must be refused settlement unless the applicant has
completed a continuous qualifying period of 10 years
with permission as set out in SETF 2.6 and has
completed 5 years continuous residence with such
permission after the date of the first permission after the
suitability ground came to the attention of the decision
maker:
(a) involvement in a sham marriage or civil
partnership (SUI 8.1. of Part Suitability); or
(b) use of false documents or information or
deception (SUI 9.1. and SUI 10.1. of Part Suitability);
or
(c) litigation debt owed to the Home Office, unless
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-settlement-family-life

Page 3 of 15

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Settlement Family Life - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:05 pm

the debt has been paid (SUI 17.1. of Part Suitability);
or
(d) debt to the NHS, unless the debt has been paid,
or the total value of outstanding charges is under
£500 (SUI 16.1 of Part Suitability); or
(e) the applicant has breached the conditions of their
permission (SUI 11.1. of Part Suitability).
SETF 2.5. Unless the applicant is a child or young adult
who was granted on the basis of private life under PL
3.1. or PL 4.1 of Appendix Private Life, if the applicant
has entered the UK illegally they must be refused
settlement unless the applicant has completed a
qualifying period of 10 years with permission under
SETF 2.6.
SETF 2.6. Where an applicant must complete a
qualifying period of 10 years (under SETF 2.3. to SETF
2.5.), they must have had permission as one of, or a
combination of the following for that 10 year qualifying
period:
(a) entry clearance or permission granted as a
partner or parent under Appendix FM (except for
permission as a fiancé(e) or proposed civil partner);
or
(b) permission described in the Home Office grant
letter as “family permission as a parent” or “family
permission as a partner”; or
(c) permission on the private life route under
paragraph 276ADE or 276BE(2) before 20 June
2022 or Appendix Private Life; or
(d) entry clearance or permission as a child of a
person with limited leave as a partner or parent
under Appendix FM; or
(e) permission granted outside the rules as a
partner, a parent or child or because of private life
on the basis of Article 8 of the Human Rights
Convention.
SETF 2.7. The applicant must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-settlement-family-life

Page 4 of 15

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Settlement Family Life - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:05 pm

the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.

Eligibility requirements for settlement as
a partner or parent based on a qualifying
period of 10 years
Qualifying period requirement for settlement as a
partner or parent based on a qualifying period of 10
years
SETF 3.1. The applicant must have spent a continuous
qualifying period in the UK of 10 years with permission
under the following (or any combination of the
following):
(a) entry clearance or permission granted as a
partner or parent under Appendix FM (except for
permission as a fiancé(e) or proposed civil partner);
or
(b) permission described in the Home Office grant
letter as “family permission as a parent” or “family
permission as a partner”; or
(c) permission on the private life route under
paragraph 276ADE or 276BE(2) before 20 June
2022 or Appendix Private Life; or
(d) entry clearance or permission as a child of a
person with limited leave as a partner or parent
under Appendix FM; or
(e) permission granted outside the rules as a
partner, a parent or child or because of private life
on the basis of Article 8 of the Human Rights
Convention.
SETF 3.2. If the applicant does not meet SETF 3.1, the
10-year qualifying period can be met by also counting
time on any other route that includes rules allowing an
applicant to qualify for settlement, if the applicant:
(a) did not enter the UK illegally; and
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-settlement-family-life

Page 5 of 15

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Settlement Family Life - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:05 pm

(b) has had permission as a partner (if applying as a
partner) or parent (if applying as a parent) under
Appendix FM for at least one year.

Continuous residence requirement for
settlement as a partner or parent based
on a qualifying period of 10 years
SETF 4.1. The applicant must have met the continuous
residence requirement as set out in Appendix
Continuous Residence for the qualifying period.

English language requirement for
settlement as a partner or parent based
on a qualifying period of 10 years
SETF 5.1. Unless an exemption applies, the applicant
must:
(a) Where the date of application is before 26 March
2027, the applicant must, unless an exemption
applies, show English language ability on the
Common European Framework of Reference for
Languages in speaking and listening to at least level
B1; or
(b) Where the date of application is on or after 26
March 2027, the applicant must, unless an
exemption applies, show English language ability on
the Common European Framework of Reference for
Languages in speaking and listening to at least level
B2.
SETF 5.2. The applicant must show they meet the
English language requirement as specified in Appendix
English Language.

Knowledge of life in the UK requirement
for settlement as a partner or parent
based on a qualifying period of 10 years
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-settlement-family-life

Page 6 of 15

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Settlement Family Life - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:05 pm

SETF 6.1. Unless an exemption applies, the applicant
must meet the Knowledge of Life in the UK requirement
as set out in Appendix KOL UK.

Relationship requirement for settlement
as a partner based on a qualifying
period of 10 years
SETF 7.1. The applicant must be the partner of a
person who is one of the following:
(a) a British citizen who is living in the UK; or
(b) present and settled in the UK; or
(c) applying for settlement at the same time as the
applicant.
SETF 7.2. The requirements of Appendix Relationship
with Partner must be met.
SETF 7.3. The applicant must have had permission
based on their relationship with their current partner for
at least one year.

Relationship requirement for settlement
as a parent based on a qualifying period
of 10 years
SETF 8.1. The applicant must have, or have last had,
permission as a parent of a child (C) under Appendix
FM (whether or not the child is aged under 18 at the
date of the parent’s application for settlement).
SETF 8.2. The applicant must be the parent of a child
who:
(a) is a British citizen and living in the UK; or
(b) is present and settled in the UK; or
(c) is applying for settlement at the same time as the
applicant.
SETF 8.3. If the child (C) at SETF 8.1. is under 18 at the
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-settlement-family-life

Page 7 of 15

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Settlement Family Life - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:05 pm

date of application, the applicant must have:
(a) sole parental responsibility; or
(b) C must normally live with the applicant; or
(c) the applicant must have direct access (in person)
to C, as agreed with the parent or carer with whom
C normally lives or as ordered by a court in the UK.
SET 8.4. The applicant must show that they are taking,
and intend to continue to take, an active role in the
child’s upbringing.

Decision on an application for
settlement as a partner or parent based
on a qualifying period of 10 years
SETF 9.1. If the decision maker is satisfied all the
suitability and eligibility requirements for settlement as a
partner or parent based on a qualifying period of 10
years are met the applicant will be granted settlement.
SETF 9.2. If the requirements for settlement are not
met, but the decision maker believes the applicant is
likely to meet all the suitability and eligibility
requirements for permission to stay under Appendix FM
as either a partner (D-LTRP.1.2.) or parent (DLTRPT.1.2.), the application will not be refused, but will
be varied by the Secretary of State to an application for
permission to stay on that route. Where this happens:
(a) no additional application fee for permission to
stay will be required and the settlement application
fee will not be refunded; and
(b) the Secretary of State will write to the applicant
informing them of this variation and, if required, will
request the applicant pay any Immigration Health
Charge.
SETF 9.3. If the applicant does not pay the requested
Immigration Health Charge, or does not request or is
granted a fee waiver for the Immigration Health Charge,
the application for permission to stay will be rejected as
invalid.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-settlement-family-life

Page 8 of 15

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Settlement Family Life - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:05 pm

SETF 9.4. Where an applicant is granted permission to
stay it will be granted for the period as set out in DLTRP.1.2 or D-LTRPT.1.2 of Appendix FM (as relevant),
subject to the conditions in the relevant paragraph.
SETF 9.5. If the decision maker is not satisfied that the
applicant meets all the suitability and eligibility
requirements for settlement or permission to stay as a
partner or parent, the application for settlement will be
refused.

Settlement as the child of a partner or
parent based on a qualifying period of
10 years
Validity requirements for settlement as a dependent
child of a partner or parent based on a qualifying
period of 10 years
SETF 10.1. A child who is applying for settlement on this
route must apply online on the gov.uk website on the
specified form as follows: “Settlement as a Child
(including a child aged over 18 already in the UK as a
dependent)”.
SETF 10.2. An application for settlement must meet all
the following requirements:
(a) any fee must have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other travel document which satisfactorily
establishes their identity and nationality; and
(d) the applicant must be in the UK, and
(e) the applicant must be applying as the child of a
person (P) who:
(i) has made a valid application for settlement in
the UK as a partner or parent based on a 10
year qualifying period, and that application has
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-settlement-family-life

Page 9 of 15

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Settlement Family Life - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:05 pm

not been decided; or
(ii) is settled or has become a British citizen,
providing P had permission as a partner or
parent based on a 10 year qualifying period
when P settled.
SETF 10.3. The applicant must have, or have last had,
permission to stay in the UK as a dependent child,
unless they were born in the UK.
SETF 10.4. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for settlement as a child may be
rejected as invalid and not considered.

Suitability requirements for settlement
as a child of a partner or parent based
on a qualifying period of 10 years
SETF 11.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
SETF 11.2. DELETED.
SETF 11.3. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
SUI 5.3. of Part Suitability, unless the applicant has
completed a qualifying period of 10 years with
permission as set out in SETF 11.6 and the applicant
has spent at least 5 years continuous residence with
such permission since the end of their sentence.
SETF 11.4. Where any of the following occur during the
applicant’s qualifying period for settlement, the applicant
must be refused settlement unless the applicant has
completed a continuous qualifying period of 10 years
with permission as set out in SETF 11.6 and has
completed 5 years continuous residence with such
permission after the date of the first grant of permission
after the suitability ground came to the attention of the
decision maker:
(a) involvement in a sham marriage or civil
partnership (grounds for refusal under SUI 8.1. of
Part Suitability); or
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-settlement-family-life

Page 10 of 15

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Settlement Family Life - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:05 pm

(b) use of false documents or information or
deception (SUI 9.1. and SUI 10.1. of Part Suitability);
or
(c) litigation debt owed to the Home Office, unless
the debt has been paid (SUI 17.1. of Part Suitability);
or
(d) debt to the NHS, unless the debt has been paid,
or the total value of outstanding charges is under
£500 (SUI 16.1. of Part Suitability); or
(e) the applicant has breached the conditions of their
permission (SUI 11.1. of Part Suitability).
SETF 11.5. Unless the applicant is a child or young
adult who was granted on the basis of private life under
PL 3.1. or PL 4.1. of Appendix Private Life, if the
applicant has entered the UK illegally they must be
refused settlement unless the applicant has completed a
qualifying period of 10 years with permission under
SETF 11.6.
SETF 11.6. Where an applicant must complete a
qualifying period of 10 years (under SETF 11.3. to SETF
11.5.), they must have had permission as one or a
combination of the following for that 10 year qualifying
period:
(a) entry clearance or permission granted as a
partner or parent under Appendix FM (except for
permission as a fiancé(e) or proposed civil partner);
or
(b) permission described in the Home Office grant
letter as “family permission as a parent” or “family
permission as a partner”; or
(c) permission on the private life route under
paragraph 276ADE or 276BE(2) before 20 June
2022 or Appendix Private Life; or
(d) entry clearance or permission as a child of a
person with limited leave as a partner or parent
under Appendix FM; or
(e) permission granted outside the rules as a
partner, a parent or child or because of private life
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-settlement-family-life

Page 11 of 15

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Settlement Family Life - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:05 pm

on the basis of Article 8 of the Human Rights
Convention.
SETF 11.7. The applicant must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.

Eligibility requirements for settlement as
a child of a partner or parent based on a
qualifying period of 10 years
Relationship requirement for settlement as a child
of a partner or parent based on a qualifying period
of 10 years
SETF 12.1. The applicant must be the child of a person
(P) where one of the following applies:
(a) P is, at the same time, being granted settlement
as a partner or parent based on a qualifying period
of 10 years; or
(b) P is settled or has become a British citizen,
providing P had permission as a partner or parent
based on a qualifying period of 10 years when they
settled.
SETF 12.2. If applying as a child, the applicant’s other
parent must be being granted settlement at the same
time, or be settled or a British citizen, unless:
(a) the person (P) in SETF 12.1. is the applicant’s
sole surviving parent; or
(b) the person (P) in SETF 12.1. has sole
responsibility for the applicant’s upbringing; or
(c) the decision maker is satisfied that there are
serious and compelling reasons to grant the
applicant settlement.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-settlement-family-life

Page 12 of 15

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Settlement Family Life - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:05 pm

Age requirement for settlement as a
child of a partner or parent based on a
qualifying period of 10 years
SETF 13.1. The applicant must be under the age of 18
on the date of application, unless they were last granted
permission as the dependent child of their parent or
parents.
SETF 13.2. If the applicant is aged 16 or over on the
date of application, they must not be leading an
independent life.

Care requirement for settlement as a
child of a partner or parent based on a
qualifying period of 10 years
SETF 14.1. If the applicant is under the age of 18 on the
date of application, there must be suitable arrangements
for the child’s care and accommodation in the UK, which
must comply with relevant UK law.

English language requirement for
settlement as a child of a partner or
parent based on a qualifying period of
10 years
SETF 15.1. Unless an exemption applies, the applicant
must:
(a) Where the date of application is before 26 March
2027, the applicant must, unless an exemption
applies, show English language ability on the
Common European Framework of Reference for
Languages in speaking and listening to at least level
B1; or
(b) Where the date of application is on or after 26
March 2027, the applicant must, unless an
exemption applies, show English language ability on
the Common European Framework of Reference for
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-settlement-family-life

Page 13 of 15

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Settlement Family Life - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:05 pm

Languages in speaking and listening to at least level
B2.
SETF 15.2. The applicant must show they meet the
English language requirement as specified in Appendix
English Language.

Knowledge of life in the UK requirement
for settlement as a child of a partner or
parent based on a qualifying period of
10 years
SETF 16.1. Unless an exemption applies (for example
where the applicant is aged under 18), they must meet
the Knowledge of Life in the UK requirement as set out
in Appendix KOL UK.

Decision on an application for
settlement as a child of a partner or
parent based on a qualifying period of
10 years
SETF 17.1. If the decision maker is satisfied all the
suitability and eligibility requirements for settlement are
met the applicant will be granted settlement.
SETF 17.2 If the requirements for settlement are not
met, but the decision maker believes the applicant is
likely to meet all the suitability and eligibility
requirements for permission to stay under Appendix FM
as a child of a person with limited leave as a partner or
parent (D-LTRC.1.1.), or qualifies under paragraph GEN
3.2 of Appendix FM, the application will be varied by the
Secretary of State to an application for permission to
stay on that route. Where this happens:
(a) no additional application fee for permission to
stay will be required and the settlement application
fee will not be refunded; and
(b) the Secretary of State will write to the applicant
informing them of this variation and, if required, will
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-settlement-family-life

Page 14 of 15

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Settlement Family Life - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:05 pm

request the applicant pay any Immigration Health
Charge.
SETF 17.3 If the applicant does not pay the requested
Immigration Health Charge, or does not request and is
granted a fee waiver for the Immigration Health Charge,
the application for permission to stay will be rejected as
invalid.
SETF 17.4. Where an applicant is granted permission to
stay they will be granted for the period as set out in
paragraph D-LTRC.1.1 of Appendix FM, subject to the
conditions in paragraph D-LTRP.1.2 (where their parent
has permission as a partner) or D-LTRPT.1.2 (where
their parent has permission as a parent).
SETF 17.5. If the decision maker is not satisfied that the
applicant meets all the suitability and eligibility
requirements for settlement or permission to stay, the
application for settlement will be refused.

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-settlement-family-life

© Crown copyright

Page 15 of 15

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix
Settlement Protection
Settlement for people on a protection route
A person who has been on a protection route for at least
five years may be eligible for settlement on this route.
Partners and children of a person with refugee status or
humanitarian protection who is eligible to apply on the
settlement protection route may also apply on this route
if they have been granted permission to stay as the
dependant partner or child of such a person.

Validity requirements for settlement on a
protection route
STP 1.1. A person granted permission on a protection
route who is applying for settlement must apply online
on the gov.uk website on the specified form as follows:
(a) form: ‘Apply to settle in the UK – refugee or
humanitarian protection’; or

(b) form, ‘Settlement Protection’ where available.
STP 1.2. The application for settlement must meet all
the following requirements:
(a) the applicant must have provided any required
biometrics; and
(b) the applicant must satisfactorily establish their
identity and nationality; and
(c) the applicant must be in the UK on the date of
application.
STP 1.3. The applicant must have, or have last been
granted:
(a) permission to stay as a refugee or as a person
granted humanitarian protection following an asylum
application made before 28 June 2022; or
(b) refugee permission to stay following an asylum
application made on or after 28 June 2022.
STP 1.4. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for settlement for a person on a
protection route may be rejected as invalid and not
considered.

Suitability requirements for settlement
by a person on a protection route
STP 2.1. An application for settlement on a protection
route must be refused where the applicant:
(a) has been convicted of a criminal offence in the
UK or overseas for which they have received a
custodial sentence of four years or more; or
(b) has been convicted of a criminal offence in the
UK or overseas for which they have received a
custodial sentence of at least 12 months but less
than four years, unless a period of 15 years has
passed since the end of their sentence; or
(c) has been convicted of a criminal offence in the
UK or overseas for which they have received a
custodial sentence of less than 12 months, unless a
period of seven years has passed since the end of
their sentence; or

(d) within the 24 months before the date on which
the application for settlement is decided, has been
convicted of, or admitted to an offence in the UK or
overseas for which they have received a noncustodial sentence, or received an out-of-court
disposal that is recorded on their criminal record; or
(e) is a persistent offender who shows a particular
disregard for the law; or
(f) has committed a criminal offence, or offences,
which caused serious harm; or
(g) where a grant of settlement is not conducive to
the public good because of their conduct, character,
associations or other reasons (including convictions
which do not fall within the criminality grounds) or
because they represent a threat to national security.

Eligibility requirements for settlement
for a person on a protection route
Qualifying period requirement for settlement for a
person on a protection route
STP 3.1. The applicant must have spent a continuous
period of at least five years in the UK with either:
(a) refugee status; or
(b) humanitarian protection.
Continuing status requirement for settlement for a
person on a protection route
STP 4.1. The applicant’s refugee status or humanitarian
protection must not have been revoked or renounced.
STP 4.2. When considering the Settlement protection
application, a safe return review will be undertaken
unless the SSHD directs otherwise to consider whether
there have been any changes in personal
circumstances or country conditions that could lead to a
grant of refugee status or humanitarian protection being
revoked or not renewed as per paragraph 339A to
339AC and 339G to 339GD of the immigration rules.

Decision on an application for
settlement for a person on a protection
route
STP 5.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that the
applicant meets all the suitability and eligibility
requirements for settlement for a person on a protection
route are met, the applicant will be granted settlement.
STP 5.2. If the decision maker is not satisfied that the
applicant meets all the suitability and eligibility
requirements for settlement for a person on a protection
route, but is satisfied that the applicant is still entitled to
refugee status or humanitarian protection, the applicant
will be granted a further period of permission to stay on
a protection route for at least 30 months.
STP 5.3. If the decision maker is not satisfied that the
applicant meets all the suitability and eligibility
requirements for settlement for a person on a protection
route, or for permission to stay on a protection route, the
application for settlement will be refused.

Settlement as a partner or child of a
person on a protection route
Validity requirements for settlement as a partner or
child of a person on a protection route
STP 6.1. An applicant who is applying for settlement as
a partner or child of a person on a protection route must
apply online on the gov.uk website on the specified form
as follows:
Applicant

Form

Partner

Either: ‘Apply to settle in the UK – refugee
or humanitarian protection’; or ‘Settlement
as a partner or parent’ (where available).

Child

Either: ‘Apply to settle in the UK – refugee
or humanitarian protection’; or ‘Settlement
as a child (including a child aged over 18
already in the UK as a dependent)’ (where

available).
STP 6.2. An application for settlement as a partner or
child on a person on a settlement route must meet all
the following requirements:
(a) the applicant must have provided any required
biometrics; and
(b) the applicant must satisfactorily establish their
identity and nationality; and
(c) the applicant must be in the UK on the date of
application.
STP 6.3. (a) Unless the applicant is a child born in the
UK while their parent had refugee status or
humanitarian protection, the applicant must have, or
have last been granted permission as the child of a
person granted refugee status or humanitarian
protection following an asylum application made before
28 June 2022.
(b) Unless the applicant is a child born in the UK while
their parent had refugee permission to stay, the
applicant must have, or have last been granted
permission to stay under paragraph 339QC, 352B-BA,
352E, 352FB or 352FH of these rules.
STP 6.4. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for settlement as a partner or child
of a person on a protection route may be rejected as
invalid and not considered.
Suitability requirements for settlement as a partner
or child of a person on a protection route
STP 7.1. An application for settlement as a partner or
child of a person on a settlement route must be refused
where the applicant:
(a) has been convicted of a criminal offence in the
UK or overseas for which they have received a
custodial sentence of four years or more; or
(b) has been convicted of a criminal offence in the
UK or overseas for which they have received a
custodial sentence of at least 12 months but less

than four years, unless a period of 15 years has
passed since the end of their sentence; or
(c) has been convicted of a criminal offence in the
UK or overseas for which they have received a
custodial sentence of less than 12 months, unless a
period of seven years has passed since the end of
their sentence; or
(d) within the 24 months prior to the date on which
the application for settlement is decided, has been
convicted of or admitted to an office in the UK or
overseas for which they have received a noncustodial sentence, or received an out-of-court
disposal that is recorded on their criminal record; or
(e) is a persistent offender who shows a particular
disregard for the law; or
(f) has committed a criminal offence, or offences,
which caused serious harm; or
(g) where a grant of settlement is not conducive to
the public good because of their conduct, character,
associations or other reasons (including convictions
which do not fall within the criminality grounds) or
the fact they represent a threat to national security.
Eligibility requirements for settlement as a partner
or child of a person on a protection route.
Relationship requirement for settlement as the
partner of a person on a protection route.
STP 8.1. The applicant must be the partner of a person
(P) where one of the following applies:
(a) P has refugee status or humanitarian protection
and is, at the same time as the applicant, being
granted settlement; or
(b) P has refugee status or humanitarian protection,
is settled on the protection route and the applicant
had permission to stay as P’s partner when P
settled.
STP 8.2. The requirements of Appendix Relationship
with Partner must be met.
STP 8.3. DELETED.

Requirements for settlement as a child of a person
on a protection route
STP 8A.1. The applicant must meet the following
requirements for a dependent child in Appendix
Children:
(a) age requirement; and
(b) care requirement; and
(c) relationship requirement: settlement.
Relationship requirement for settlement as a child
of a person on a protection route
STP 9.1. DELETED.
STP 9.2. DELETED.
Age requirement for settlement as a child of a
person on a protection route
STP 10.1. DELETED.

Decision on an application for
settlement as a partner or child of a
person on a protection route
STP 11.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that the
applicant meets all the suitability and eligibility
requirements for settlement as a partner or child of a
person on a protection route, the applicant will be
granted settlement.
STP 11.2. If the decision maker is not satisfied that the
applicant meets all the suitability and eligibility
requirements for settlement as a partner or child of a
person on a protection route, but is satisfied that the
applicant continues to qualify as a partner or child of a
person on a protection route, the applicant will be
granted permission to stay for at least 30 months.
STP 11.3. If the decision maker is not satisfied that the
applicant meets all the suitability and eligibility
requirements for settlement as a partner or child of a
person on a protection route, or for permission to stay
as a partner or child of a person on a protection route,
the application for settlement will be refused.

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

© Crown copyright

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Short-term Student (English language) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:34 am

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix Short-term
Student (English language)
Immigration Rules for Short-term Students
This route is for a person aged 16 and over who wants
to study an English language course in the UK for
between 6 and 11 months at an accredited institution.
An application can only be made by a person outside
the UK.
Short-term Study (English language) is an unsponsored
route, sponsored study for persons aged 16 and over is
covered in Appendix Student.
A visitor under Appendix V: Visitor can study an English
language course of less than 6 months with an
accredited institution.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-short-term-student-english-language

Page 1 of 5

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Short-term Student (English language) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:34 am

Validity requirements for a Short-term
Student
STS 1.1. A person applying for entry clearance as a
Short-term Student must apply online on the gov.uk
website on the specified form “Short-term Student visa”.
STS 1.2. An application for entry clearance as a Shortterm Student must meet all the following requirements:
(a) any fee and Immigration Health Charge must
have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics when
required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other travel document which satisfactorily
establishes their identity and nationality; and
(d) the applicant must be outside the UK.
STS 1.3. The applicant must be aged 16 or over on the
date of application.
STS 1.4. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for a Short-term Student may be
rejected as invalid and not considered.

Suitability requirements for a Short-term
Student
STS 2.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.

Eligibility requirements for a Short-term
Student
Entry requirements for a Short-term Student
STS 3.1. A person seeking to come to the UK as a
Short-term Student must obtain entry clearance as a
Short-term Student before they arrive in the UK.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-short-term-student-english-language

Page 2 of 5

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Short-term Student (English language) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:34 am

STS 3.2. A person applying for entry clearance as a
Short-term Student for more than 6 months must, if
Appendix Tuberculosis applies, provide a valid medical
certificate confirming that they have undergone
screening for active pulmonary tuberculosis and that this
tuberculosis is not present in them.
Course requirements for a Short-term Student
STS 4.1. The course provider must be an accredited
institution.
STS 4.2. The applicant must provide written evidence
from the course provider that the applicant has been
accepted onto an English language course (that does
not include any other subject) that lasts at least 6
months and no longer than 11 months.
Study requirement for a Short-term Student
STS 5.1. The applicant must satisfy the decision maker
that they are a genuine Short-term Student, which
means they:
(a) are genuinely seeking entry for the purpose of
undertaking the course of study for which they have
demonstrated they have been accepted onto in STS
4.2; and
(b) will not study in the UK other than for the course
of study for which they have demonstrated they
have been accepted onto in STS 4.2; and
(c) will not study at an academy or state-funded
school; and
(d) will leave the UK within 30 days of the end of
their English language course, or at the end of 11
months, whichever is sooner; and
(e) will not make the UK their main home; and
(f) will not work in the UK; and
(g) will not engage in any business or professional
activities in the UK; and
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-short-term-student-english-language

Page 3 of 5

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Short-term Student (English language) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:34 am

(h) have relied upon funds to meet the Financial
Requirement in STS 6.1 to STS 6.4 which are
genuinely available to them t for the purposes of
undertaking the course of study for which they have
demonstrated they have been accepted onto in STS
4.2.
STS 5.2. DELETED
Financial requirements for a Short-term Student
STS 6.1. The applicant must be able to maintain and
accommodate themselves adequately without receiving
public funds.
STS 6.2. The applicant must have enough funds to
meet the cost of their return or onward journey from the
UK.
STS 6.3. At the date of application, the applicant must
have paid their course fees or have enough funds to pay
their course fees.
STS 6.4. Funds must be shown as specified in
Appendix Finance.
Parental consent requirement for a Short-term
Student aged 16 or 17
STS 7.1. The applicant must meet the parental consent
requirement for applicant not applying as a dependent
child in Appendix Children.
STS 7.2. DELETED

Decision on an application as a Shortterm Student
STS 8.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all the
suitability and eligibility requirements for a Short-term
Student are met the application will be granted,
otherwise the application will be refused.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-short-term-student-english-language

Page 4 of 5

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Short-term Student (English language) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:34 am

STS 8.2. If the application is refused, the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.

Period of grant for a Short-term Student
STS 9.1. The applicant will be granted permission for 11
months.

Conditions of grant for a Short-term
Student
STS 9.2. The grant will be subject to all the following
conditions:
(a) no access to public funds; and
(b) no work; and
(c) study only on the course for which the applicant
was granted permission.

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-short-term-student-english-language

© Crown copyright

Page 5 of 5

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/home-office)
Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates (/guidance/immigrationrules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations
Eligible SOC 2020 occupation codes and going rates for
Skilled Worker, Global Business Mobility and Scale-up
routes
In this Appendix:
• “SW” refers to the Skilled Worker route
• “GBM” refers to the Global Business Mobility routes
• “GTR” refers to the Global Business Mobility - Graduate Trainee route
• “SCU” refers to the Scale-up route

Table 1: Eligible SOC 2020 occupation codes and
related going rates based on median Annual Survey of
Hours and Earnings (ASHE) data
These SOC 2020 occupation codes are considered to be skilled to
Regulated Qualifications Framework (RQF) level 6 or above, and are
eligible for the Skilled Worker route. This table relates to points options A-E
set out in Appendix Skilled Worker.
Going rates in Table 1 are per year and based on a 37.5-hour working week.
They must be pro-rated for other working patterns, based on the weekly
working hours stated by the applicant’s sponsor. Options A to E refer to the
points options set out in Appendix Skilled Worker.
The going rates and associated reductions which apply are whichever is the
higher of:
• the rate shown by the median ASHE data for that occupation; or
• £17.13 per hour
For the avoidance of doubt, where £17.13 per hour calculates as more than
70%, 80% or 90% of the stated going rate, £17.13 will nevertheless be
taken to be 70%, 80% or 90% of the going rate, as applicable.
Only the going rate column applies to Skilled Worker settlement
applications; the columns setting out 70%, 80% and 90% of the going rate
do not apply.
SOC 2020
occupation code

Examples of related
job titles (nonexclusive)

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Going
rate
(SW –

90% of
going
rate (SW

80% of
going
rate (SW
Page 1 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

options
A and
D)

– option
B)

– option
C)

1111 Chief executives
and senior officials

• Chairpersons
• Chief executives
• Diplomats and
foreign office officials
• Senior public service
officials
• Chief executives and
senior officials not
elsewhere classified

£88,100
(£45.18
per
hour)

£79,300
(£40.67
per hour)

£70,400
(£36.10
per hour)

1121 Production
managers and
directors in
manufacturing

• Production
managers and
directors in
manufacturing

£55,000
(£28.21
per
hour)

£49,500
(£25.38
per hour)

£44,000
(£22.56
per hour)

1122 Production
managers and
directors in
construction

• Production
managers and
directors in
construction

£53,400
(£27.38
per
hour)

£48,100
(£24.67
per hour)

£42,700
(£21.90
per hour)

1123 Production
managers and
directors in mining
and energy

• Managers and
directors in the
extraction of fossil
fuels
• Managers and
directors in the
production of energy
• Production
managers and
directors in mining
and energy not
elsewhere classified

£54,000
(£27.69
per
hour)

£48,600
(£24.92
per hour)

£43,200
(£22.15
per hour)

1131 Financial
managers and
directors

• Bank, building
society and post office
managers
• Company
secretaries and
finance managers and
directors
• Investment bankers
and directors
• Financial managers
and directors not
elsewhere classified

£75,100
(£38.51
per
hour)

£67,600
(£34.67
per hour)

£60,100
(£30.82
per hour)

1132 Marketing, sales
and advertising
directors

• Advertising and
marketing directors
• Sales directors
• Marketing, sales and
advertising directors
not elsewhere
classified

£87,300
(£44.77
per
hour)

£78,600
(£40.31
per hour)

£69,800
(£35.79
per hour)

1133 Public relations
and communications
directors

• Public relations and
communications
directors

£77,200
(£39.59
per
hour)

£69,500
(£35.64
per hour)

£61,700
(£31.64
per hour)

1134 Purchasing
managers and
directors

• Estimating
managers and
directors
• Procurement and
purchasing managers
and directors

£54,700
(£28.05
per
hour)

£49,300
(£25.28
per hour)

£43,800
(£22.46
per hour)

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 2 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

• Purchasing
managers and
directors not
elsewhere classified
1135 Charitable
organisation
managers and
directors

• Charitable
organisation
managers and
directors

£44,300
(£22.72
per
hour)

£39,900
(£20.46
per hour)

£35,500
(£18.21
per hour)

1136 Human resource
managers and
directors

• Employee relations
managers
• Equality, diversity
and inclusion
managers
• Learning and
development
managers and
directors
• Recruitment
managers and
directors
• Human resources
managers and
directors not
elsewhere classified

£52,900
(£27.13
per
hour)

£47,600
(£24.41
per hour)

£42,300
(£21.69
per hour)

1137 Information
technology directors

• Information security
directors
• Information
technology operations
directors
• Information
technology
programme managers
and directors
• Information
technology technical
directors
• Information
technology directors
not elsewhere
classified

£86,000
(£44.10
per
hour)

£77,400
(£39.69
per hour)

£68,800
(£35.28
per hour)

1139 Functional
managers and
directors not
elsewhere classified

• Accounts directors
• Administration
directors
• Complaints and
customer service
directors
• Events directors
• Intellectual property
managers and
directors
• Municipal clerks
• Research and
development (R&D)
directors
• Functional managers
and directors not
elsewhere classified

£74,700
(£38.31
per
hour)

£67,200
(£34.46
per hour)

£59,700
(£30.62
per hour)

1140 Directors in
logistics, warehousing
and transport

• Supply chain
directors
• Directors in logistics,
warehousing and
transport not
elsewhere classified

£81,400
(£41.74
per
hour)

£73,300
(£37.59
per hour)

£65,100
(£33.38
per hour)

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 3 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

1162 Senior police
officers

• Chief, deputy chief
and assistant chief
constables
• Chief inspectors
• Chief
superintendents
• Senior police officers
not elsewhere
classified

£64,000
(£32.82
per
hour)

£57,600
(£29.54
per hour)

£51,200
(£26.26
per hour)

1163 Senior officers in
fire, ambulance,
prison and related
services

• Senior officers in
ambulance services
• Senior officers in fire
services
• Senior officers in
immigration services
• Senior officers in
prison services
• Senior officers in
revenue and customs

£61,600
(£31.59
per
hour)

£55,400
(£28.41
per hour)

£49,200
(£25.23
per hour)

1171 Health services
and public health
managers and
directors

• Clinical governance
and information
managers
• Healthcare service
managers and
directors
• Health services and
public health
managers and
directors not
elsewhere classified

£50,300
(£25.79
per
hour)

£45,300
(£23.23
per hour)

£40,300
(£20.67
per hour)

1172 Social services
managers and
directors

• Social services
managers and
directors

£43,000
(£22.05
per
hour)

£38,700
(£19.85
per hour)

£34,400
(£17.64
per hour)

1241 Managers in
transport and
distribution

• Airport managers
• Depot and fleet
managers
• Dispatch and
distribution managers
• Harbour and port
managers
• Road traffic
managers
• Managers in
transport and
distribution not
elsewhere classified

£44,900
(£23.03
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

1254 Waste disposal
and environmental
services managers

• Landfill site
managers
• Recycling managers
• Scrap yard
managers
• Sewage works and
water treatment
managers
• Waste disposal and
environmental
services managers
not elsewhere
classified

£48,300
(£24.77
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

1255 Managers and
directors in the
creative industries

• Art gallery managers
and directors
• Film and television

£44,900
(£23.03
per

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 4 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

production managers
• Publishing managers
and directors
• Radio production
managers
• Sport and talent
agents
• Theatre production
managers
• Managers and
directors in the
creative industries not
elsewhere classified

hour)

2111 Chemical
scientists

• Analytical chemists
• Industrial chemists
• Nuclear and
radiochemists
• Research and
development chemists
• Chemical scientists
not elsewhere
classified

£39,900
(£20.46
per
hour)

£35,900
(£18.41
per hour)

£33,400
(£17.13
per hour)

2112 Biological
scientists

• Agricultural
scientists
• Biologists
• Botanical and
horticultural scientists
• Microbiologists and
bacteriologists
• Pathologists
• Pharmacologists
• Zoological scientists
• Biological scientists
not elsewhere
classified

£40,300
(£20.67
per
hour)

£36,300
(£18.62
per hour)

£33,400
(£17.13
per hour)

2113 Biochemists and
biomedical scientists

• Biochemists
• Biomedical scientists
• Biotechnologists
• Clinical scientists
• Biochemists and
biomedical scientists
not elsewhere
classified

£45,900
(£23.54
per
hour)

£41,300
(£21.18
per hour)

£36,700
(£18.82
per hour)

2114 Physical
scientists

• Geologists
• Geophysicists
• Hydrogeologists and
hydrologists
• Meteorologists
• Physical scientists
not elsewhere
classified

£54,600
(£28.00
per
hour)

£49,100
(£25.18
per hour)

£43,600
(£22.36
per hour)

2115 Social and
humanities scientists

• Anthropologists
• Archaeologists
• Behavioural
scientists
• Epidemiologists
• Genealogists
• Geographic
information systems
(GIS) analysts
• Historians
• Political scientists
• Public health

£40,400
(£20.72
per
hour)

£36,400
(£18.67
per hour)

£33,400
(£17.13
per hour)

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 5 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

analysts
• Social and
humanities scientists
not elsewhere
classified
2119 Natural and
social science
professionals not
elsewhere classified

• Sports scientists
• Natural and social
science professionals
not elsewhere
classified

£41,500
(£21.28
per
hour)

£37,300
(£19.13
per hour)

£33,400
(£17.13
per hour)

2121 Civil engineers

• Building and building
services engineers
• Geotechnical
engineers
• Mining engineers
• Structural engineers
• Transportation
engineers
• Water engineers
(professional)
• Civil engineers not
elsewhere classified

£50,400
(£25.85
per
hour)

£45,300
(£23.23
per hour)

£40,300
(£20.67
per hour)

2122 Mechanical
engineers

• Automotive
engineers
(professional)
• Marine engineers
and naval architects
• Mechanical design
engineers
• Mechanical
engineers not
elsewhere classified

£46,800
(£24.00
per
hour)

£42,100
(£21.59
per hour)

£37,400
(£19.18
per hour)

2123 Electrical
engineers

• Laser engineers
• Power systems
engineers
• Railway signalling
engineers
• Electrical engineers
not elsewhere
classified

£58,700
(£30.10
per
hour)

£52,900
(£27.13
per hour)

£47,000
(£24.10
per hour)

2124 Electronics
engineers

• Broadcast engineers
(professional)
• Telecommunications
engineers
(professional)
• Electronics
engineers not
elsewhere classified

£52,000
(£26.67
per
hour)

£46,800
(£24.00
per hour)

£41,600
(£21.33
per hour)

2125 Production and
process engineers

• Chemical engineers
• Control and
instrumentation
engineers
• Industrial and
production engineers
• Production and

£45,000
(£23.08
per
hour)

£40,500
(£20.77
per hour)

£36,000
(£18.46
per hour)

Note: For Skilled
Worker purposes,
SOC 2020 occupation
code 2119 includes
researchers in
research
organisations other
than universities.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 6 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

process engineers not
elsewhere classified
2126 Aerospace
engineers

• Aeronautical
engineers
(professional)
• Aircraft engineers
(professional)
• Avionics engineers
• Aerospace
engineers not
elsewhere classified

£52,400
(£26.87
per
hour)

£47,200
(£24.21
per hour)

£41,900
(£21.49
per hour)

2127 Engineering
project managers and
project engineers

• Engineering project
managers and project
engineers

£51,900
(£26.62
per
hour)

£46,700
(£23.95
per hour)

£41,500
(£21.28
per hour)

2129 Engineering
professionals not
elsewhere classified

• Acoustic engineers
• Biomedical
engineers
• Brewers (qualified)
• Clinical Engineers
• Energy engineers
• Food technologists
• Gas engineers
(professional)
• Heating and
ventilating engineers
(professional)
• Materials engineers
• Mechatronic
engineers
• Nuclear engineers
• Patent engineers
• Robotics engineers
• Traffic engineers
• Engineering
professionals not
elsewhere classified

£46,100
(£23.64
per
hour)

£41,500
(£21.28
per hour)

£36,900
(£18.92
per hour)

2131 IT project
managers

• IT project managers

£58,200
(£29.85
per
hour)

£52,400
(£26.87
per hour)

£46,600
(£23.90
per hour)

2132 IT managers

• IT information
managers
• IT product managers
• IT service delivery
managers
• IT systems
managers
• IT test managers
• Network managers
• Software
development
managers
• Technical support
managers
• IT managers not
elsewhere classified

£55,000
(£28.21
per
hour)

£49,500
(£25.38
per hour)

£44,000
(£22.56
per hour)

2133 IT business
analysts, architects
and systems
designers

• Computer analysts
and scientists
• Data architects
• Data engineers
• IT systems architects
• IT business analysts

£54,900
(£28.15
per
hour)

£49,400
(£25.33
per hour)

£43,900
(£22.51
per hour)

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 7 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

• IT solutions
architects and
designers
• IT business analysts,
architects and
systems designers not
elsewhere classified
2134 Programmers
and software
development
professionals

• Computer games
designers
• Computer
programmers
• Software developers
• Programmers and
software development
professionals not
elsewhere classified

£54,700
(£28.05
per
hour)

£49,200
(£25.23
per hour)

£43,700
(£22.41
per hour)

2135 Cyber security
professionals

• Cyber operational
defence specialists
• Cyber security
management and
governance
specialists
• Forensic computer
specialists
• Secure system
development
specialists
• Cyber security
professionals not
elsewhere classified

£48,500
(£24.87
per
hour)

£43,700
(£22.41
per hour)

£38,800
(£19.90
per hour)

2136 IT quality and
testing professionals

• IT quality and testing
professionals

£41,200
(£21.13
per
hour)

£37,100
(£19.03
per hour)

£33,400
(£17.13
per hour)

2137 IT network
professionals

• IT network
professionals

£45,600
(£23.38
per
hour)

£41,100
(£21.08
per hour)

£36,500
(£18.72
per hour)

2139 Information
technology
professionals not
elsewhere classified

• DevOps engineers
• IT consultants
• Webmasters and
website managers
• Information
technology
professionals not
elsewhere classified

£52,300
(£26.82
per
hour)

£47,100
(£24.15
per hour)

£41,800
(£21.44
per hour)

2141 Web design
professionals

• Application
designers
• UI and UX designers
and researchers
• Web designers
• Web design
professionals not
elsewhere classified

£43,800
(£22.46
per
hour)

£39,400
(£20.21
per hour)

£35,100
(£18.00
per hour)

2142 Graphic and
multimedia designers

• Multimedia
animators
• Graphic and
multimedia designers
not elsewhere
classified

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

£33,400
(£17.13
per hour)

£33,400
(£17.13
per hour)

2151 Conservation

• Conservationists

£36,000

£33,400

£33,400

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 8 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

professionals

• Ecologists
• Heritage officers
• Conservation
professionals not
elsewhere classified

(£18.46
per
hour)

(£17.13
per hour)

(£17.13
per hour)

2152 Environment
professionals

• Energy managers
• Environmental and
geo-environmental
engineers
• Environmental
consultants
• Environmental
scientists
• Sustainability
officers
• Environmental
professionals not
elsewhere classified

£37,200
(£19.08
per
hour)

£33,500
(£17.18
per hour)

£33,400
(£17.13
per hour)

2161 Research and
development (R&D)
managers

• Laboratory
managers
• Research and
development (R&D)
design managers
• Research and
development (R&D)
managers not
elsewhere classified

£54,400
(£27.90
per
hour)

£48,900
(£25.08
per hour)

£43,500
(£22.31
per hour)

2162 Other
researchers,
unspecified discipline

• Other researchers,
unspecified discipline

£43,600
(£22.36
per
hour)

£39,200
(£20.10
per hour)

£34,900
(£17.90
per hour)

2240 Veterinarians

• Veterinarians

£49,500
(£25.38
per
hour)

£44,500
(£22.82
per hour)

£39,600
(£20.31
per hour)

2311 Higher education
teaching professionals

• Higher education
teaching professionals

£52,600
(£26.97
per
hour)

£47,300
(£24.26
per hour)

£42,100
(£21.59
per hour)

2317 Teachers of
English as a foreign
language

• Teachers of English
as a Foreign
Language

£36,200
(£18.56
per
hour)

£33,400
(£17.13
per hour)

£33,400
(£17.13
per hour)

2319 Teaching
professionals not
elsewhere classified

• Adult education
tutors
• Dance and drama
school principals and
owners
• Private music and
singing teachers
• Private tutors
• Teaching
professionals not
elsewhere classified

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

£33,400
(£17.13
per hour)

£33,400
(£17.13
per hour)

2322 Education
managers

• Education managers

£43,900
(£22.51
per
hour)

£39,500
(£20.26
per hour)

£35,100
(£18.00
per hour)

2323 Education
advisers and school

• Educational advisers
• School inspectors

£42,200
(£21.64

£37,900
(£19.44

£33,700
(£17.28

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 9 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

inspectors

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

per
hour)

per hour)

per hour)

2329 Other
educational
professionals not
elsewhere classified

• Bursars
• Educational
administrators
• Examiners and
markers
• Other educational
professionals not
elsewhere classified

£40,600
(£20.82
per
hour)

£36,600
(£18.77
per hour)

£33,400
(£17.13
per hour)

2411 Barristers and
judges

• Barristers and
advocates
• Judges
• Barristers and
judges not elsewhere
classified

£59,400
(£30.46
per
hour)

£53,500
(£27.44
per hour)

£47,500
(£24.36
per hour)

2412 Solicitors and
lawyers

• Commercial
solicitors and lawyers
• Criminal solicitors
and lawyers
• Family solicitors and
lawyers
• Property solicitors
and lawyers
• Solicitors and
lawyers not elsewhere
classified

£51,600
(£26.46
per
hour)

£46,500
(£23.85
per hour)

£41,300
(£21.18
per hour)

2419 Legal
professionals not
elsewhere classified

• Conveyancers
• Litigation executives
• Paralegals
• Patent and
trademark attorneys
• Legal professionals
not elsewhere
classified

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

£33,400
(£17.13
per hour)

£33,400
(£17.13
per hour)

2421 Chartered and
certified accountants

• Auditors (qualified
accountant)
• Financial
accountants
(qualified)
• Forensic
accountants
• Fund accountants
• Insolvency
practitioners
• Chartered and
certified accountants
not elsewhere
classified

£49,200
(£25.23
per
hour)

£44,300
(£22.72
per hour)

£39,400
(£20.21
per hour)

2422 Finance and
investment analysts
and advisers

• Credit analysts
• Financial advisers
and planners
• Financial analysts
• Mortgage advisers
• Finance and
investment analysts
and advisers not
elsewhere classified

£45,800
(£23.49
per
hour)

£41,200
(£21.13
per hour)

£36,700
(£18.82
per hour)

2423 Taxation experts

• Taxation experts

£48,500
(£24.87
per
hour)

£43,700
(£22.41
per hour)

£38,800
(£19.90
per hour)

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 10 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

2431 Management
consultants and
business analysts

• Business analysts
and consultants
• Management
advisers and
consultants
• Risk analysts
• Management
consultants and
business analysts not
elsewhere classified

£50,200
(£25.74
per
hour)

£45,200
(£23.18
per hour)

£40,200
(£20.62
per hour)

2432 Marketing and
commercial managers

• Commercial
managers
• Marketing managers
• Marketing and
commercial managers
not elsewhere
classified

£50,100
(£25.69
per
hour)

£45,100
(£23.13
per hour)

£40,000
(£20.51
per hour)

2433 Actuaries,
economists and
statisticians

• Actuaries and
actuarial analysts
• Economists
• Mathematicians
• Statistical data
scientists
• Statisticians
• Actuaries,
economists and
statisticians not
elsewhere classified

£55,100
(£28.26
per
hour)

£49,600
(£25.44
per hour)

£44,100
(£22.62
per hour)

2434 Business and
related research
professionals

• Intelligence analysts
• Researchers in
media and
entertainment
• Business and related
research
professionals not
elsewhere classified

£38,800
(£19.90
per
hour)

£35,000
(£17.95
per hour)

£33,400
(£17.13
per hour)

2435
Professional/chartered
company secretaries

•
Professional/chartered
company secretaries

£58,200
(£29.85
per
hour)

£52,300
(£26.82
per hour)

£46,500
(£23.85
per hour)

2439 Business,
research and
administrative
professionals not
elsewhere classified

• Policy officers
• Business, research
and administrative
professionals not
elsewhere classified

£56,600
(£29.03
per
hour)

£50,900
(£26.10
per hour)

£45,300
(£23.23
per hour)

2440 Business and
financial project
management
professionals

• Business change
managers
• Clinical trials
coordinators
• Risk managers
• Business and
financial project
management
professionals not
elsewhere classified

£56,500
(£28.97
per
hour)

£50,800
(£26.05
per hour)

£45,200
(£23.18
per hour)

2451 Architects

• Architects
• Landscape
architects and
designers

£47,600
(£24.41
per
hour)

£42,800
(£21.95
per hour)

£38,100
(£19.54
per hour)

2452 Chartered

• Chartered

£35,800

£33,400

£33,400

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 11 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

architectural
technologists,
planning officers and
consultants

architectural
technologists
• Town planning
officers
• Urban designers
• Chartered
architectural
technologists,
planning officers and
consultants not
elsewhere classified

(£18.36
per
hour)

(£17.13
per hour)

(£17.13
per hour)

2453 Quantity
surveyors

• Quantity surveyors

£48,600
(£24.92
per
hour)

£43,800
(£22.46
per hour)

£38,900
(£19.95
per hour)

2454 Chartered
surveyors

• Building control
surveyors
• Hydrographic
surveyors
• Land surveyors
• Property surveyors
• Chartered surveyors
not elsewhere
classified

£43,800
(£22.46
per
hour)

£39,400
(£20.21
per hour)

£35,000
(£17.95
per hour)

2455 Construction
project managers and
related professionals

• Construction project
and contract
managers
• Transport planners
• Construction project
managers and related
professionals not
elsewhere classified

£44,300
(£22.72
per
hour)

£39,900
(£20.46
per hour)

£35,400
(£18.15
per hour)

2462 Probation
officers

• Probation officers

£35,700
(£18.31
per
hour)

£33,400
(£17.13
per hour)

£33,400
(£17.13
per hour)

2464 Youth work
professionals

• Youth work
professionals

£38,000
(£19.49
per
hour)

£34,200
(£17.54
per hour)

£33,400
(£17.13
per hour)

2469 Welfare
professionals not
elsewhere classified

• Adoption officers
• Children and family
services professionals
• Mediators and
restorative practice
professionals
• Welfare
professionals not
elsewhere classified

£39,700
(£20.36
per
hour)

£35,700
(£18.31
per hour)

£33,400
(£17.13
per hour)

2471 Librarians

• Librarians

£34,800
(£17.85
per
hour)

£33,400
(£17.13
per hour)

£33,400
(£17.13
per hour)

2472 Archivists,
conservators and
curators

• Archivists
• Collection managers
and curators
• Conservators
• Museum education
officers
• Archivists and
curators not

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

£33,400
(£17.13
per hour)

£33,400
(£17.13
per hour)

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 12 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

elsewhere classified
2481 Quality control
and planning
engineers

• Garment
technologists
• Planning engineers
• Quality control
engineers
• Quality control and
planning engineers
not elsewhere
classified

£41,300
(£21.18
per
hour)

£37,100
(£19.03
per hour)

£33,400
(£17.13
per hour)

2482 Quality
assurance and
regulatory
professionals

• Compliance and
regulatory
professionals
• Quality assurance
professionals

£48,200
(£24.72
per
hour)

£43,400
(£22.26
per hour)

£38,600
(£19.79
per hour)

2483 Environmental
health professionals

• Environmental
health professionals

£40,900
(£20.97
per
hour)

£36,800
(£18.87
per hour)

£33,400
(£17.13
per hour)

2491 Newspaper,
periodical and
broadcast editors

• Newspaper,
periodical and
broadcast editors

£39,600
(£20.31
per
hour)

£35,600
(£18.26
per hour)

£33,400
(£17.13
per hour)

2492 Newspaper and
periodical broadcast
journalists and
reporters

• Broadcast journalists
• Newspaper
journalists and
reporters
• Newspaper and
periodical journalists
and reporters not
elsewhere classified

£34,000
(£17.44
per
hour)

£33,400
(£17.13
per hour)

£33,400
(£17.13
per hour)

2493 Public relations
professionals

• Press officers
• Public relations
officers
• Social media
managers
• Public relations
professionals not
elsewhere classified

£37,000
(£18.97
per
hour)

£33,400
(£17.13
per hour)

£33,400
(£17.13
per hour)

2494 Advertising
accounts managers
and creative directors

• Advertising account
managers
• Creative directors
• Fundraising
managers

£46,000
(£23.59
per
hour)

£41,400
(£21.23
per hour)

£36,800
(£18.87
per hour)

3415 Musicians

• Composers and
musical arrangers
• Music conductors
• Instrumentalists
• Musicians not
elsewhere classified

£37,500
(£19.23
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

3416 Arts officers,
producers and
directors

• Art consultants
• Broadcasting and
entertainment
directors
• Broadcasting and
entertainment editors
• Broadcasting and
entertainment
producers
• Studio and stage

£38,100
(£19.54
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 13 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

managers
• Arts officers,
producers and
directors not
elsewhere classified
3511 Aircraft pilots
and air traffic
controllers

• Airline pilots
• Air traffic controllers
• Flying instructors
• Helicopter pilots
• Aircraft pilots and air
traffic controllers not
elsewhere classified

£80,400
(£41.23
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

3531 Brokers

• Commodity brokers
and traders
• Insurance and
mortgage brokers
• Shipbrokers
• Stockbrokers
• Brokers not
elsewhere classified

£52,400
(£26.87
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

3534 Financial
accounts managers

• Claims managers
• Credit managers
• Investment
managers
• Relationship
managers
• Financial accounts
managers not
elsewhere classified

£44,700
(£22.92
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

3556 Sales accounts
and business
development
managers

• Brand managers
• Business
development
managers
• Sales account
managers
• Sales accounts and
business development
managers not
elsewhere classified

£55,200
(£28.31
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

Table 1a: Additional eligible SOC 2020 occupation
codes and related going rates for Skilled Worker
applicants granted permission under the rules in place
before 22 July 2025
These SOC 2020 occupation codes are considered to be skilled to
Regulated Qualifications Framework (RQF) level 3-5, other than “6135 Care
workers and home carers”, which is considered to be skilled to RQF level 2.
This table relates to points options A-E set out in Appendix Skilled Worker.
Except where option D or the Temporary Shortage List in SW 6.1A applies,
sponsors may ONLYsponsor Skilled Worker applicants in these SOC2020
occupation codes if the applicant was granted permission as a Skilled
Worker under the rules in place before 22 July 2025, and they have had
continuous permission as a Skilled Worker since then.
Other than skill level, the notes accompanying Table 1 also apply to this
table.
SOC 2020
occupation
code

Examples of
related job titles
(non-exclusive)

Going
rate
(SW –

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

90% of
going
rate (SW

80% of
going
rate (SW

70% of
going
rate
Page 14 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

options
A and
D)

– option
B)

– option
C)

(SW –
option
E)

1150 Managers
and directors in
retail and
wholesale

• Managers and
directors in retail
and wholesale

£36,400
(£18.67
per
hour)

£33,400
(£17.13
per hour)

£33,400
(£17.13
per hour)

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

1211 Managers
and proprietors
in agriculture
and horticulture

• Managers and
proprietors in
agriculture and
horticulture

£35,900
(£18.41
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

1212 Managers
and proprietors
in forestry,
fishing and
related services

• Cattery and
kennel managers
and proprietors
• Fisheries
managers and
proprietors
• Forestry
managers
• Livery yard and
stud farm
managers and
proprietors
• Racehorse
trainers
• Managers and
proprietors in
forestry, fishing
and related
services not
elsewhere
classified

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

1221 Hotel and
accommodation
managers and
proprietors

• Hotel and
accommodation
managers and
proprietors

£38,300
(£19.64
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

1222
Restaurant and
catering
establishment
managers and
proprietors

• Café and
restaurant
managers and
proprietors
• Catering
operations
managers
• Takeaway
managers and
proprietors
• Restaurant and
catering
establishment
managers and
proprietors not
elsewhere
classified

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

1223 Publicans
and managers
of licensed
premises

• Publicans and
managers of
licensed premises

£36,300
(£18.62
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

1224 Leisure
and sports
managers and
proprietors

• Cinema
managers and
proprietors
• Golf course
managers

£34,100
(£17.49
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 15 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

• Gym, fitness and
leisure services
managers and
proprietors
• Marina managers
• Museum
managers and
proprietors
• Parks and
gardens managers
• Theatre
managers
(excludes hospital
service)
• Leisure and
sports managers
and proprietors not
elsewhere
classified
1225 Travel
agency
managers and
proprietors

• Travel agency
managers and
proprietors

£36,000
(£18.46
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

1231 Health
care practice
managers

• Dental practice
managers
• Medical practice
managers
• Opticians
managers
• Veterinary
practice managers
• Health care
practice managers
not elsewhere
classified

£40,400
(£20.72
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

1232
Residential,
day and
domiciliary care
managers and
proprietors

• Day care
managers
• Home care
managers
• Residential care
managers and
proprietors
• Residential, day
and domiciliary
care managers
and proprietors not
elsewhere
classified

£40,400
(£20.72
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

1233 Early
education and
childcare
services
proprietors

• Early education
and childcare
services
proprietors

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

1242 Managers
in storage and
warehousing

• Managers in
storage and
warehousing

£35,100
(£18.00
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

1243 Managers
in logistics

• Managers in
logistics

£44,900
(£23.03
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

1251 Property,

• Facilities

£42,600

Not

Not

£33,400

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 16 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

housing and
estate
managers

managers
• Landlords,
property and
housing managers
• Property
investors and
developers
• Sales and
lettings managers
• Shopping centre
managers
• Property, housing
and estate
managers not
elsewhere
classified

(£21.85
per
hour)

applicable

applicable

(£17.13
per
hour)

1252 Garage
managers and
proprietors

• Garage
managers and
proprietors

£45,600
(£23.38
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

1253
Hairdressing
and beauty
salon
managers and
proprietors

• Beauty salon
managers and
proprietors
• Hairdressing
managers and
proprietors
• Hairdressing and
beauty salon
managers and
proprietors not
elsewhere
classified

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

1256 Betting
shop and
gambling
establishment
managers

• Betting shop
managers
• Bingo hall
managers
• Casino managers
• Betting shop and
gambling
establishment
managers not
elsewhere
classified

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

1257 Hire
services
managers and
proprietors

• Hire services
managers and
proprietors

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

1258 Directors
in consultancy
services

• Design
consultancy
directors
• Environmental
consultancy
directors
• Management
consultancy
directors
• Surveying
consultancy
directors
• Directors in
consultancy
services not
elsewhere
classified

£70,100
(£35.95
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£49,100
(£25.18
per
hour)

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 17 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

1259 Managers
and proprietors
in other
services not
elsewhere
classified

• Cleaning and
hygiene services
managers and
proprietors
• Educational
establishment
managers and
proprietors
• Funeral services
and crematorium
managers and
proprietors
• Library managers
• Recruitment
agency managers
and proprietors
• Security services
managers and
proprietors
• Managers and
proprietors in other
services not
elsewhere
classified

£41,700
(£21.38
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

2324 Early
education and
childcare
services
managers

• Early education
and childcare
services managers

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

£33,400
(£17.13
per hour)

£33,400
(£17.13
per hour)

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

3111
Laboratory
technicians

• Biological
laboratory
technicians
• Chemical
laboratory
technicians
• Health physics
monitors
• Laboratory food
technicians
• Medical
laboratory
technicians
• Laboratory
technicians not
elsewhere
classified

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

£33,400
(£17.13
per hour)

£33,400
(£17.13
per hour)

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

3112 Electrical
and electronics
technicians

• Avionics
technicians
• Electrical and
electronics
technicians not
elsewhere
classified

£39,300
(£20.15
per
hour)

£35,400
(£18.15
per hour)

£33,400
(£17.13
per hour)

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

3113
Engineering
technicians

• Aerospace
technicians
• Wind turbine
technicians
• Engineering
technicians not
elsewhere
classified

£42,500
(£21.79
per
hour)

£38,300
(£19.64
per hour)

£34,000
(£17.44
per hour)

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

3114 Building
and civil

• Building
technicians

£33,400
(£17.13

£33,400
(£17.13

£33,400
(£17.13

£33,400
(£17.13

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 18 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

engineering
technicians

• Civil engineering
technicians
• Surveying
technicians
• Building and civil
engineering
technicians not
elsewhere
classified

per
hour)

per hour)

per hour)

per
hour)

3115 Quality
assurance
technicians

• Quality
assurance
technicians

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

£33,400
(£17.13
per hour)

£33,400
(£17.13
per hour)

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

3116 Planning,
process and
production
technicians

• Planning,
process and
production
technicians

£34,800
(£17.85
per
hour)

£33,400
(£17.13
per hour)

£33,400
(£17.13
per hour)

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

3119 Science,
engineering
and production
technicians not
elsewhere
classified

• School
technicians
• Textile
consultants
• Science,
engineering and
production
technicians not
elsewhere
classified

£34,600
(£17.74
per
hour)

£33,400
(£17.13
per hour)

£33,400
(£17.13
per hour)

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

3120 CAD,
drawing and
architectural
technicians

• Architectural
technicians
• BIM and CAD
technicians
• Cartographers
• CAD, drawing
and architectural
technicians not
elsewhere
classified

£33,800
(£17.33
per
hour)

£33,400
(£17.13
per hour)

£33,400
(£17.13
per hour)

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

3131 IT
operations
technicians

• Games testers
• Network and
systems
administrators
• Quality
assurance testers
• Software
technicians
• IT operations
technicians not
elsewhere
classified

£35,200
(£18.05
per
hour)

£33,400
(£17.13
per hour)

£33,400
(£17.13
per hour)

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

3132 IT user
support
technicians

• IT user support
technicians

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

£33,400
(£17.13
per hour)

£33,400
(£17.13
per hour)

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

3133 Database
administrators
and web
content
technicians

• Database
administrators
• Web content
technicians
• Database
administrators and
web content
technicians not
elsewhere

£34,600
(£17.74
per
hour)

£33,400
(£17.13
per hour)

£33,400
(£17.13
per hour)

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 19 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

classified
3211
Dispensing
opticians

• Dispensing
opticians

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

3212
Pharmaceutical
technicians

• Pharmaceutical
technicians

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

3221 Youth and
community
workers

• Community
workers
• Family support
workers
• Youth workers
(excludes youth
work
professionals)
• Youth and
community
workers not
elsewhere
classified

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

3222 Child and
early years
officers

• Child protection
officers
• Learning and
behaviour mentors
• Welfare and
attendance officers
• Child and early
years officers not
elsewhere
classified

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

3223 Housing
officers

• Housing officers

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

3224
Counsellors

• Bereavement
counsellors
• Debt advisers
• Life coaches
• Relationship
counsellors
• Substance
misuse workers
• Counsellors not
elsewhere
classified

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

3229 Welfare
and housing
associate
professionals
not elsewhere
classified

• Advocates
(excludes solicitor
advocates)
• Celebrants
• Charity workers
• Day care officers
• Health advisers
• Homelessness
and housing
advice support
workers
• Mental health
project workers
• Probation service

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 20 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

workers
• Student support
workers
• Victim support
workers
• Welfare and
housing associate
professionals not
elsewhere
classified
3232 Early
education and
childcare
practitioners

• Early education
and childcare
practitioners

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

3240 Veterinary
nurses

• Veterinary nurses

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

3312 Police
officers
(sergeant and
below)

• Police constable
• Police sergeant
• Police officers
(sergeant and
below) not
elsewhere
classified

£46,900
(£24.05
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

3313 Fire
service officers
(watch
manager and
below)

• Firefighters
• Fire service crew
managers
• Watch managers
• Fire service
officers (watch
manager and
below) not
elsewhere
classified

£42,100
(£21.59
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

3314 Prison
service officers
(below principal
officer)

• Operational
support grades
• Prison officers
• Prison service
officers (below
principal officer)
not elsewhere
classified

£38,800
(£19.90
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

3319 Protective
service
associate
professionals
not elsewhere
classified

• Coastguard
• Customs and
border control
officers
• Fraud
investigators
(excludes benefit
fraud)
• Immigration
officers
• Private
investigators
• Security
consultants and
managers
(excludes cyber
security)
• Protective
service associate
professionals not

£41,100
(£21.08
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 21 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

elsewhere
classified
3411 Artists

• Art technicians
(excludes
education)
• Drawing and
painting artists
• Hand drawn
animators
• Illustrators
(excludes medical
and scientific)
• Medical and
scientific
illustrators
• Picture restorers
• Sculptors
• Tattoo and henna
artists
• Artists not
elsewhere
classified

£38,200
(£19.59
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

3412 Authors,
writers and
translators

• Authors
• Bloggers
• Copywriters
• Literary editors
• Poets
• Script writers
• Technical writers
(excludes
computing)
• Translators and
interpreters
• Authors, writers
and translators not
elsewhere
classified

£36,100
(£18.51
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

3413 Actors,
entertainers
and presenters

• Actors
• Broadcasters,
podcasters and
presenters
• Children’s
entertainers
• Comedians
• Disc jockeys
• Magicians
• Models
• Singers
• Social media
influencers
• Actors,
entertainers and
presenters not
elsewhere
classified

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

3414 Dancers
and
choreographers

• Choreographers
• Dance teachers
(excludes
educational
establishments)
• Dancers

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

3417
Photographers,
audio-visual

• Camera
operators and
videographers

£33,400
(£17.13
per

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 22 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

and
broadcasting
equipment
operators

• Lighting
designers
• Photographers
• Sound designers
• Sound engineers
• Theatre
technicians
(excludes
hospitals)
• Photographers,
audio-visual and
broadcasting
equipment
operators not
elsewhere
classified

hour)

3421 Interior
designers

• Interior designers

£35,200
(£18.05
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

3422 Clothing,
fashion and
accessories
designers

• Clothing and
fashion
consultants
• Clothing and
fashion designers
• Footwear
designers
• Jewellery
designers
• Textile designers
• Clothing, fashion
and accessories
designers not
elsewhere
classified

£36,500
(£18.72
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

3429 Design
occupations not
elsewhere
classified

• Industrial and
product designers
• Packaging
designers
• Performance
make-up artists
• Set designers
• Visual
merchandising
managers and
designers
• Design
occupations not
elsewhere
classified

£39,300
(£20.15
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

3433 Fitness
and wellbeing
instructors

• Group fitness
instructors and
personal trainers
• Pilates teachers
• Yoga teachers
• Fitness and
wellbeing
instructors not
elsewhere
classified

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

3512 Ship and
hovercraft
officers

• Ship and
hovercraft captains
and deck officers
(excludes armed

£58,300
(£29.90
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£40,800
(£20.92
per
hour)

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

hour)

Page 23 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

forces and fishing)
• Marine engineers
• Ship and
hovercraft officers
not elsewhere
classified
3520 Legal
associate
professionals

• Conveyancing
professionals
• Cost lawyers
• Barrister’s and
judge’s clerks
• Litigation officers
• Probate
managers
• Will writers
• Legal associate
professionals not
elsewhere
classified

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

3532 Insurance
underwriters

• Insurance
underwriters

£36,500
(£18.72
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

3533 Financial
and accounting
technicians

• Accounting
technicians
• Financial control
technicians
• Financial and
accounting
technicians not
elsewhere
classified

£48,700
(£24.97
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£34,100
(£17.49
per
hour)

3541
Estimators,
valuers and
assessors

• Energy advisers
and assessors
• Estimators
• Loss adjusters
• Valuers
• Vehicle damage
assessors
• Estimators,
valuers and
assessors not
elsewhere
classified

£35,300
(£18.10
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

3542 Importers
and exporters

• Importers and
exporters

£35,700
(£18.31
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

3543 Project
support officers

• Project support
officers

£33,900
(£17.38
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

3544 Data
analysts

• Data analysts

£34,900
(£17.90
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

3549 Business
associate
professionals
not elsewhere

• Business support
officers
• Business
systems analysts

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 24 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

classified

• Contract
administrators
• Clinical coders
• Clinical trials
administrators
• Research
coordinators
• Business
associate
professionals not
elsewhere
classified

3551 Buyers
and
procurement
officers

• Buyers and
procurement
officers

£35,500
(£18.21
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

3552 Business
sales
executives

• Business sales
executives

£36,700
(£18.82
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

3553
Merchandisers

• Merchandisers

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

3554
Advertising and
marketing
associate
professionals

• Advertising and
marketing
executives
• Fundraisers
• Market
researchers
(excludes
interviewers)
• Marketing
associate
professionals not
elsewhere
classified

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

3555 Estate
agents and
auctioneers

• Estate agents
• Land and
property
auctioneers and
valuers
• Letting agents
• Estate agents
and auctioneers
not elsewhere
classified

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

3557 Events
managers and
organisers

• Conference
managers and
organisers
• Exhibition
managers and
organisers
• Festival
managers and
organisers
• Hospitality
managers
• Wedding
planners and
organisers
• Event managers

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 25 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

and organisers not
elsewhere
classified
3560 Public
services
associate
professionals

• Electoral services
officers
• Health service
administrators
• Job Centre
officers
• Waste
management
officers
• Public services
associate
professionals not
elsewhere
classified

£39,500
(£20.26
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

3571 Human
resources and
industrial
relations
officers

• Equality and
diversity officers
• Human
resources advisers
• Recruitment
consultants
• Human
resources and
industrial relations
officers not
elsewhere
classified

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

3572 Careers
advisers and
vocational
guidance
specialists

• Careers advisers
and coaches
• Work placement
officers
• Careers advisers
and vocational
guidance
specialists not
elsewhere
classified

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

3573
Information
technology
trainers

• Information
technology trainers

£40,000
(£20.51
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

3574 Other
vocational and
industrial
trainers

• Business
coaches
• Retail and store
trainers
• Training
assessors
• Other vocational
and industrial
trainers not
elsewhere
classified

£34,500
(£17.69
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

3581
Inspectors of
standards and
regulations

• Animal health
inspectors and
officers
• Building control
officers
• Driving
examiners
• Health and safety
inspectors

£34,400
(£17.64
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 26 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

• Housing and
planning
inspectors
• Licensing officers
• Meat hygiene
inspectors
• Nuclear safety
inspectors
• Trading
standards officers
• Traffic and
vehicle examiners
and inspectors
• Inspectors of
standards and
regulations not
elsewhere
classified
3582 Health
and safety
managers and
officers

• Asbestos safety
officers
• Fire safety
managers and
officers
• Occupational
health and safety
managers and
officers
• Road traffic and
transport safety
officers
• Occupational
hygienists
• Health and safety
managers and
officers not
elsewhere
classified

£42,500
(£21.79
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

4111 National
government
administrative
occupations

• National
government
benefits officers
• National
government
revenue officers
• Passport officers
• National
government
administrative
occupations not
elsewhere
classified

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

4112 Local
government
administrative
occupations

• Local
government
benefits officers
• Local
government
housing assistants
• Local
government
revenue officers
• Parish clerks
• Local
government
administrative
occupations not
elsewhere
classified

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 27 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

4113 Officers of
nongovernmental
organisations

• Charity
administrators
• Clerks to
governors
• Union officials
• Officers of nongovernmental
organisations not
elsewhere
classified

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

4121 Credit
controllers

• Credit controllers

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

4122 Bookkeepers, payroll
managers and
wages clerks

• Accounting clerks
and bookkeepers
• Payroll officers
and wages clerks
• Bookkeepers,
payroll managers
and wage clerks
not elsewhere
classified

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

4124 Finance
officers

• Finance officers

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

4129 Financial
administrative
occupations not
elsewhere
classified

• Box office
assistants
• Grants officers
• Mortgage
administrators
• Revenue
assistants
(excludes National
and Local
government
revenue
occupations)
• Treasury
assistants
• Finance
administrative
occupations not
elsewhere
classified

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

4132 Pensions
and insurance
clerks and
assistants

• Claims handlers
• Insurance
administrators
• Pensions
administrators
• Pensions and
insurance clerks
and assistants not
elsewhere
classified

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

4134 Transport
and distribution
clerks and
assistants

• Transport and
distribution clerks
and assistants

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 28 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

4141 Office
managers

• Office managers

£37,400
(£19.18
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

4143 Customer
service
managers

• Call centre
managers
• Customer service
managers not
elsewhere
classified

£35,200
(£18.05
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

4151 Sales
administrators

• Sales
administrators

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

4159 Other
administrative
occupations not
elsewhere
classified

• Business
administrators
• Church
administrators
• Facilities
coordinators
• Proofreaders
• Property
administrators
• Warranty
administrators
• Other
administrative
occupations not
elsewhere
classified

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

4214 Company
secretaries and
administrators

• Company
secretaries and
administrators

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

4215 Personal
assistants and
other
secretaries

• Farm secretaries
• Personal
assistants
(excludes care
workers)
• Personal
assistants and
other secretaries
not elsewhere
classified

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

5111 Farmers

• Agricultural
contractors
• Aquaculture
farmers
• Arable farmers
• Dairy farmers
• Livestock farmers
• Poultry farmers
• Farmers not
elsewhere
classified

£34,100
(£17.49
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

5112
Horticultural
trades

• Horticultural
trades

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

5113
Gardeners and

• Garden
designers

£33,400
(£17.13

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 29 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

landscape
gardeners

• Gardeners
(excludes
horticultural/market
gardening)
• Green roof
installers
• Landscape
gardeners
• Gardeners and
landscape
gardeners not
elsewhere
classified

per
hour)

5114
Groundsmen
and
greenkeepers

• Groundsmen and
greenkeepers

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

5119
Agricultural and
fishing trades
not elsewhere
classified

• Arborists
• Beekeepers
• Countryside and
park officers and
rangers
• Falconers
• Fish and river
keepers
• Fishers
• Gamekeepers
• Agricultural and
fishing trades not
elsewhere
classified

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

5211 Sheet
metal workers

• Metal fabricators
and finishers
• Panel beaters
(excludes vehicles)
• Whitesmiths
• Sheet metal
workers not
elsewhere
classified

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

5212 Metal
plate workers,
smiths,
moulders and
related
occupations

• Die casters
• Farriers
• Moulders, mould
makers and core
makers
• Smiths
• Metal plate
workers, smiths,
moulders and
related
occupations not
elsewhere
classified

£36,700
(£18.82
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

5213 Welding
trades

• Braziers and
solderers
• Pipe welders
• Plate welders
• Welding trades
not elsewhere
classified

£34,900
(£17.90
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

5214 Pipe
fitters

• Pipe fitters

£46,000
(£23.59

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

per
hour)

Page 30 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

per
hour)

per
hour)

5221 Metal
machining
setters and
setter-operators

• Computer
numerical control
(CNC) machine
setters and setteroperators
• Metal machining
setters and setteroperators not
elsewhere
classified

£34,600
(£17.74
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

5222 Tool
makers, tool
fitters and
markers-out

• Tool fitters
• Tool makers
• Tool makers, tool
fitters and
markers-out not
elsewhere
classified

£38,400
(£19.69
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

5223 Metal
working
production and
maintenance
fitters

• Automation
maintenance
technicians
• Bicycle
mechanics
• Catering
equipment
technicians
• Door fitters and
makers
• Gunsmiths
• Heavy plant
maintenance
technicians
• Hydraulic
technicians
• Lift technicians
• Locksmiths
• Pump
technicians
• Textile machine
technicians
• Turbine fitters
• Metal working
production and
maintenance fitters
not elsewhere
classified

£39,300
(£20.15
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

5224 Precision
instrument
makers and
repairers

• Calibration and
precision
instrument
technicians
• Camera and
photographic
equipment
technicians
• Horologists,
watch makers and
repairers
• Optical
technicians
• Precision
instrument makers
and repairers not
elsewhere

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 31 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

classified
5225 Airconditioning
and
refrigeration
installers and
repairers

• Air-conditioning
and refrigeration
installers and
repairers

£41,100
(£21.08
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

5231 Vehicle
technicians,
mechanics and
electricians

• Auto electricians
• Car/light vehicle
technicians
• Heavy and large
vehicle technicians
• Motorcycle
technicians
• Motorsport
technicians
• MOT testers
• Roadside
assistance
technicians
• Vehicle
technicians,
mechanics and
electricians not
elsewhere
classified

£35,500
(£18.21
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

5232 Vehicle
body builders
and repairers

• Vehicle body
builders and
repairers

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

5233 Vehicle
paint
technicians

• Vehicle paint
technicians

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

5234 Aircraft
maintenance
and related
trades

• Aircraft
maintenance and
related trades

£45,000
(£23.08
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

5235 Boat and
ship builders
and repairers

• Boat and ship
builders and
repairers

£33,700
(£17.28
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

5236 Rail and
rolling stock
builders and
repairers

• Rail and rolling
stock builders and
repairers

£57,000
(£29.23
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£39,900
(£20.46
per
hour)

5241
Electricians and
electrical fitters

• Electric vehicle
charging point
installers
• Electromechanical
technicians
• Installation and
maintenance
electricians
• Smart energy
experts
• Solar panel
installers
• Street lighting

£38,800
(£19.90
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 32 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

electrician
• Electricians and
electrical fitters not
elsewhere
classified
5242 Telecoms
and related
network
installers and
repairers

• Telecoms and
related network
installers and
repairers

£36,700
(£18.82
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

5243 TV, video
and audio
servicers and
repairers

• TV, video and
audio servicers
and repairers

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

5244 Computer
system and
equipment
installers and
servicers

• Computer system
and equipment
installers and
servicers

£35,100
(£18.00
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

5245 Security
system
installers and
repairers

• Security system
installers and
repairers

£36,300
(£18.62
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

5246 Electrical
service and
maintenance
mechanics and
repairers

• Electrical service
and maintenance
mechanics and
repairers

£39,700
(£20.36
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

5249 Electrical
and electronic
trades not
elsewhere
classified

• Broadcast and
communications
technicians
• Overhead line
workers
• Signal workers
• Electrical and
electronic trades
not elsewhere
classified

£45,800
(£23.49
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

5250 Skilled
metal, electrical
and electronic
trades
supervisors

• Skilled metal,
electrical and
electronic trades
supervisors

£42,400
(£21.74
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

5311 Steel
erectors

• Steel erectors

£35,000
(£17.95
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

5312
Stonemasons
and related
trades

• Dry stone wallers
• Monumental
masons
• Stonemasons
• Stonemasons
and related trades
not elsewhere
classified

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

5313
Bricklayers

• Bricklayers

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 33 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

5314 Roofers,
roof tilers and
slaters

• Felt and flat
roofers
• Sheeters and
cladders
• Thatchers
• Tilers and slaters
• Roofers, roof
tilers and slaters
not elsewhere
classified

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

5315 Plumbers
and heating
and ventilating
installers and
repairers

• Plumbers and
heating and
ventilation
installers and
repairers

£38,100
(£19.54
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

5316
Carpenters and
joiners

• Bedroom and
kitchen fitters
• Carpenters
• Joiners
• Carpenters and
joiners not
elsewhere
classified

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

5317 Glaziers,
window
fabricators and
fitters

• Glass cutters and
glaziers
• Window
fabricators
• Window fitters
• Glaziers, window
fabricators and
fitters not
elsewhere
classified

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

5319
Construction
and building
trades not
elsewhere
classified

• Builders
• Divers
• Fence erectors
• Industrial
climbers
• Remotely
Operated Vehicle
(ROV) operators
• Steel fixers and
underpinners
• Construction and
building trades not
elsewhere
classified

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

5321 Plasterers

• Dry liners
• Plasterers (wall
and decorative)

£34,200
(£17.54
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

5322 Floorers
and wall tilers

• Carpet and
linoleum fitters
• Floor layers
• Tilers
• Floorers and wall
tilers not
elsewhere
classified

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

5323 Painters
and decorators

• Painters and
decorators

£33,400
(£17.13

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 34 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

per
hour)

per
hour)

5330
Construction
and building
trades
supervisors

• Carpenter and
joinery supervisors
• Demolition
supervisors
• Painting
supervisors
• Plumbing
supervisors
• Road
construction
supervisors
• Roofing
supervisors
• Scaffolding
supervisors
• Construction and
building trade
supervisors not
elsewhere
classified

£41,800
(£21.44
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

5411
Upholsterers

• Curtain makers
• Trimmers and
upholsterers
• Upholsterers not
elsewhere
classified

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

5412 Footwear
and leather
working trades

• Footwear makers
and repairers
• Leather workers
(excludes leather
dressing)
• Footwear and
leather working
trades not
elsewhere
classified

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

5413 Tailors
and
dressmakers

• Costume makers
• Dressmakers
• Fitters and
alterations
assistants
• Kilt makers
• Milliners
(excludes
wholesale, retail
trade)
• Tailors
• Tailors and
dressmakers not
elsewhere
classified

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

5419 Textiles,
garments and
related trades
not elsewhere
classified

• Embroiderers
and sewers
• Knitters
• Sail makers
• Weavers
(excludes basket,
wig and wire
goods mfr)
• Textiles,
garments and

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 35 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

related trades not
elsewhere
classified
5421 Pre-press
technicians

• Pre-press
technicians

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

5422 Printers

• Digital printers
• Flexographic
printers
• Lithographic
printers
• Screen printers
• Printers not
elsewhere
classified

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

5423 Print
finishing and
binding workers

• Print finishing
and binding
workers

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

5431 Butchers

• Butchers
• Slaughterers

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

5432 Bakers
and flour
confectioners

• Bakers (excludes
food process
bakery workers
and textile
manufacturing)
• Cake decorators
and designers
• Bakers and flour
confectioners not
elsewhere
classified

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

5433
Fishmongers
and poultry
dressers

• Fishmongers
• Poultry dressers
• Fishmongers and
poultry dressers
not elsewhere
classified

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

5434 Chefs

• Chefs

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

5436 Catering
and bar
managers

• Catering and bar
managers

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

5441 Glass and
ceramics
makers,
decorators and
finishers

• Ceramic makers,
decorators and
finishers
• Ceramic potters
• Glass blowers
• Glass makers,
decorators and
finishers
• Optical glass
makers

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 36 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

• Glass and
ceramics makers,
decorators and
finishers not
elsewhere
classified
5442 Furniture
makers and
other craft
woodworkers

• Cabinet makers
(excludes metal)
• Furniture makers
and fitters
• Furniture
restorers
• Furniture
sprayers and
finishers
• Picture framers
• Shed makers
• Furniture makers
and other craft
woodworkers not
elsewhere
classified

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

5443 Florists

• Florists

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

5449 Other
skilled trades
not elsewhere
classified

• Basket makers
(excludes wire
goods mfr)
• Candle makers
• Goldsmiths,
silversmiths,
jewellers and
precious stone
workers
• Hairpiece and
wig makers
• Metal engravers
• Craft model
makers
• Musical
instrument
repairers, makers
and tuners
• Sign makers and
writers
• Toy makers and
repairers
• Other skilled
trades not
elsewhere
classified

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

6111 Early
education and
childcare
assistants

• Early education
and childcare
assistants

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

6114
Childminders

• Childminders

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

6117
Playworkers

• Playworkers

£33,400
(£17.13
per

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 37 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

hour)

hour)

6129 Animal
care services
occupations not
elsewhere
classified

• Animal boarding
assistants
• Animal breeders
• Animal groomers
• Animal trainers
(excludes
performing
animals)
• Animal walkers
• Animal welfare
workers
• Stable workers
• Veterinary
assistants
• Zookeepers
• Animal care
services
occupations not
elsewhere
classified

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

6134
Houseparents
and residential
wardens

• Foster carers
• Residential
childcare
practitioners
• School matrons
and houseparents
• Residential
housing wardens
• Houseparents
and residential
wardens not
elsewhere
classified

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

6135 Care
workers and
home carers –
Jobs with a
working
location in
England are
only eligible in
this SOC 2020
occupation
code where the
sponsor holds
registration with
the Care
Quality
Commission
and is currently
carrying on a
regulated
activity.

• Community
support workers
• Home care
workers
• Residential care
workers
• Care workers
and home carers
not elsewhere
classified

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Eligibility for
Skilled Worker
applicants to be
sponsored in
this SOC 2020
occupation
code is
restricted, as
set out in SW
6.1B of
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 38 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

Appendix
Skilled Worker.
Note: private
households or
individuals
(other than sole
traders
sponsoring
someone to
work for their
business)
cannot sponsor
Skilled Worker
applicants.
6136 Senior
care workers –
Jobs with a
working
location in
England are
only eligible in
this SOC 2020
occupation
code where the
sponsor holds
registration with
the Care
Quality
Commission
and is currently
carrying on a
regulated
activity.

• Senior
community support
workers
• Senior home
care workers
• Senior residential
care workers
• Senior care
workers not
elsewhere
classified

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

6213 Air travel
assistants

• Flight attendants
• Passenger
services assistants
• Air travel
assistants not
elsewhere
classified

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

6214 Rail travel
assistants

• Railway station
assistants
• Revenue
protection officers
• Train conductors
and guards
• Rail travel
assistants not
elsewhere
classified

£41,300
(£21.18
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

6311 Police

• Police community

£33,400

Not

Not

£33,400

Eligibility for
Skilled Worker
applicants to be
sponsored in
this SOC 2020
occupation
code is
restricted, as
set out in SW
6.1B of
Appendix
Skilled Worker.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 39 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

community
support officers

support officers

(£17.13
per
hour)

applicable

applicable

(£17.13
per
hour)

7124 Market
and street
traders and
assistants

• Market and street
traders and
assistants

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

7131
Shopkeepers
and owners retail and
wholesale

• Antique dealers
• Art dealers
• Car traders
• Newsagents
• Retail jewellers
• Wholesalers
• Wine merchants
• Shopkeepers and
owners - retail and
wholesale not
elsewhere
classified

£33,700
(£17.28
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

7132 Sales
supervisors retail and
wholesale

• Sales
supervisors - retail
and wholesale

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

7214 Market
research
interviewers

• Field and
telephone
interviewers
• Mystery
shoppers
• Political
canvassers
• Traffic
enumerators

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

7220 Customer
service
supervisors

• Customer service
supervisors

£34,200
(£17.54
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

8113 Chemical
and related
process
operatives

• Chemical and
related process
operatives

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

8133 Energy
plant operatives

• Boiler operatives
• Compressor
operatives
• Nuclear
decommissioning
operatives
• Energy plant
operatives not
elsewhere
classified

£41,500
(£21.28
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

8134 Water
and sewerage
plant operatives

• Water and
sewerage
distribution
operatives
• Water treatment
operatives
• Water and
sewerage plant
operatives not
elsewhere
classified

£38,000
(£19.49
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 40 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

8143 Routine
inspectors and
testers

• Routine
inspectors and
testers

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

8215 Driving
instructors

• Cycling
instructors
• Forklift
instructors
• Heavy and large
vehicle driving
instructors
• Motorcycle
instructors
• Passenger
carrying vehicle
(PCV) and car
driving instructors
• Driving
instructors not
elsewhere
classified

£39,500
(£20.26
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

8232 Marine
and waterways
transport
operatives

• Marine and
waterways
transport
operatives

£38,300
(£19.64
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

9119 Fishing
and other
elementary
agriculture
occupations not
elsewhere
classified ONLY the listed
job titles are
eligible in this
SOC 2020
occupation
code and ONLY
where the job
requires the
worker to have
at least 3 years’
full-time
experience in
using their
skills. This
experience
must not have
been gained
through
working
illegally.

• Vent chick sexer
• Deckhand on
large fishing vessel
(9 metres and
above)

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

9249
Elementary
sales
occupations not
elsewhere
classified

• Retail order
pickers
• Trolley collectors
• Elementary sales
occupations not
elsewhere
classified

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Not
applicable

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 41 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

Table 2: Eligible SOC 2020 occupation codes and
related going rates based on 25th percentile Annual
Survey of Hours and Earnings (ASHE) data
These SOC 2020 occupation codes are considered to be skilled to
Regulated Qualifications Framework (RQF) level 6 or above, and are
eligible for the Skilled Worker, Global Business Mobility and Scale-up
routes. This table relates to points options F-J set out in Appendix Skilled
Worker.
Going rates in Table 2 are per year and based on a 37.5-hour working week.
They must be pro-rated for other working patterns, based on the weekly
working hours stated by the applicant’s sponsor. Options F to J refer to the
points options set out in Appendix Skilled Worker.
The going rates and associated reductions which apply are whichever is the
higher of:
• the rate shown by the 25th percentile ASHE data for that occupation;
or
• £12.82 per hour
For the avoidance of doubt, where £12.82 per hour calculates as more than
70%, 80% or 90% of the stated going rate, £12.82 will nevertheless be
taken to be 70%, 80% or 90% of the going rate, as applicable.
Only the going rate column applies to Skilled Worker settlement
applications; the columns setting out 70%, 80% and 90% of the going rate
do not apply.
Equivalent SOC 2010 occupation codes are included where they were
previously eligible for the Skilled Worker route, for ease of matching to the
relevant SOC 2020 occupation codes for applicants being sponsored to
continue working in the same occupation.
SOC 2020
occupation code

Equivalent
SOC 2010
occupation
code(s)

Examples of related
job titles (nonexclusive)

Going
rate
(SW –
options
F and I,
GBM
and
SCU)

90% of
going
rate (SW
– option
G)

1111 Chief executives
and senior officials

1115, 1172

• Chairpersons
• Chief executives
• Diplomats and
foreign office officials
• Senior public service
officials
• Chief executives and
senior officials not
elsewhere classified

£60,000
(£30.77
per
hour)

£54,000
(£27.69
per hour)

1121 Production
managers and
directors in
manufacturing

1121

• Production
managers and
directors in
manufacturing

£40,000
(£20.51
per
hour)

£36,000
(£18.46
per hour)

1122 Production
managers and
directors in
construction

1122

• Production
managers and
directors in
construction

£41,400
(£21.23
per
hour)

£37,200
(£19.08
per hour)

1123 Production
managers and
directors in mining

1123

• Managers and
directors in the
extraction of fossil

£47,100
(£24.15
per

£42,400
(£21.74
per hour)

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 42 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

and energy

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

fuels
• Managers and
directors in the
production of energy
• Production
managers and
directors in mining
and energy not
elsewhere classified

hour)

1131 Financial
managers and
directors

1131, 1150

• Bank, building
society and post office
managers
• Company
secretaries and
finance managers and
directors
• Investment bankers
and directors
• Financial managers
and directors not
elsewhere classified

£49,700
(£25.49
per
hour)

£44,700
(£22.92
per hour)

1132 Marketing, sales
and advertising
directors

1132, 1134

• Advertising and
marketing directors
• Sales directors
• Marketing, sales and
advertising directors
not elsewhere
classified

£60,000
(£30.77
per
hour)

£54,000
(£27.69
per hour)

1133 Public relations
and communications
directors

1132, 1134

• Public relations and
communications
directors

£59,700
(£30.62
per
hour)

£53,800
(£27.59
per hour)

1134 Purchasing
managers and
directors

1133

• Estimating
managers and
directors
• Procurement and
purchasing managers
and directors
• Purchasing
managers and
directors not
elsewhere classified

£42,500
(£21.79
per
hour)

£38,300
(£19.64
per hour)

1135 Charitable
organisation
managers and
directors

1139, 1184

• Charitable
organisation
managers and
directors

£35,900
(£18.41
per
hour)

£32,300
(£16.56
per hour)

1136 Human resource
managers and
directors

1135

• Employee relations
managers
• Equality, diversity
and inclusion
managers
• Learning and
development
managers and
directors
• Recruitment
managers and
directors
• Human resources
managers and
directors not
elsewhere classified

£41,200
(£21.13
per
hour)

£37,100
(£19.03
per hour)

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 43 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

1137 Information
technology directors

1136, 2134,
3561

• Information security
directors
• Information
technology operations
directors
• Information
technology
programme managers
and directors
• Information
technology technical
directors
• Information
technology directors
not elsewhere
classified

£61,200
(£31.38
per
hour)

£55,000
(£28.21
per hour)

1139 Functional
managers and
directors not
elsewhere classified

1139, 1223,
2424

• Accounts directors
• Administration
directors
• Complaints and
customer service
directors
• Events directors
• Intellectual property
managers and
directors
• Municipal clerks
• Research and
development (R&D)
directors
• Functional managers
and directors not
elsewhere classified

£52,300
(£26.82
per
hour)

£47,100
(£24.15
per hour)

1140 Directors in
logistics, warehousing
and transport

1133, 1161,
1162

• Supply chain
directors
• Directors in logistics,
warehousing and
transport not
elsewhere classified

£53,600
(£27.49
per
hour)

£48,200
(£24.72
per hour)

1162 Senior police
officers

1172

• Chief, deputy chief
and assistant chief
constables
• Chief inspectors
• Chief
superintendents
• Senior police officers
not elsewhere
classified

£60,800
(£31.18
per
hour)

£54,700
(£28.05
per hour)

1163 Senior officers in
fire, ambulance,
prison and related
services

1173

• Senior officers in
ambulance services
• Senior officers in fire
services
• Senior officers in
immigration services
• Senior officers in
prison services
• Senior officers in
revenue and customs

£50,000
(£25.64
per
hour)

£45,000
(£23.08
per hour)

1171 Health services
and public health
managers and
directors

1181

• Clinical governance
and information
managers
• Healthcare service
managers and

£41,600
(£21.33
per
hour)

£37,400
(£19.18
per hour)

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 44 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

directors
• Health services and
public health
managers and
directors not
elsewhere classified
1172 Social services
managers and
directors

1184, 1242

• Social services
managers and
directors

£33,100
(£16.97
per
hour)

£29,800
(£15.28
per hour)

1241 Managers in
transport and
distribution

1139, 1150,
1161, 1162,
4161

• Airport managers
• Depot and fleet
managers
• Dispatch and
distribution managers
• Harbour and port
managers
• Road traffic
managers
• Managers in
transport and
distribution not
elsewhere classified

£35,200
(£18.05
per
hour)

Not
applicable

1254 Waste disposal
and environmental
services managers

1255

• Landfill site
managers
• Recycling managers
• Scrap yard
managers
• Sewage works and
water treatment
managers
• Waste disposal and
environmental
services managers
not elsewhere
classified

£39,700
(£20.36
per
hour)

Not
applicable

1255 Managers and
directors in the
creative industries

1121, 1134,
1139, 1225,
1259, 2435,
3416

• Art gallery managers
and directors
• Film and television
production managers
• Publishing managers
and directors
• Radio production
managers
• Sport and talent
agents
• Theatre production
managers
• Managers and
directors in the
creative industries not
elsewhere classified

£37,000
(£18.97
per
hour)

Not
applicable

2111 Chemical
scientists

2111, 3111

• Analytical chemists
• Industrial chemists
• Nuclear and
radiochemists
• Research and
development chemists
• Chemical scientists
not elsewhere
classified

£31,300
(£16.05
per
hour)

£28,200
(£14.46
per hour)

2112 Biological
scientists

2112

• Agricultural
scientists

£30,700
(£15.74

£27,600
(£14.15

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 45 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

• Biologists
• Botanical and
horticultural scientists
• Microbiologists and
bacteriologists
• Pathologists
• Pharmacologists
• Zoological scientists
• Biological scientists
not elsewhere
classified

per
hour)

per hour)

2113 Biochemists and
biomedical scientists

2112, 3111,
3319

• Biochemists
• Biomedical scientists
• Biotechnologists
• Clinical scientists
• Biochemists and
biomedical scientists
not elsewhere
classified

£35,100
(£18.00
per
hour)

£31,600
(£16.21
per hour)

2114 Physical
scientists

2113

• Geologists
• Geophysicists
• Hydrogeologists and
hydrologists
• Meteorologists
• Physical scientists
not elsewhere
classified

£41,500
(£21.28
per
hour)

£37,300
(£19.13
per hour)

2115 Social and
humanities scientists

2114

• Anthropologists
• Archaeologists
• Behavioural
scientists
• Epidemiologists
• Genealogists
• Geographic
information systems
(GIS) analysts
• Historians
• Political scientists
• Public health
analysts
• Social and
humanities scientists
not elsewhere
classified

£28,000
(£14.36
per
hour)

£25,200
(£12.92
per hour)

2119 Natural and
social science
professionals not
elsewhere classified

2119, 2426,
3111

• Sports scientists
• Natural and social
science professionals
not elsewhere
classified

£33,700
(£17.28
per
hour)

£30,300
(£15.54
per hour)

2121, 2122,
2126

• Building and building
services engineers
• Geotechnical
engineers
• Mining engineers

£39,200
(£20.10
per
hour)

£35,300
(£18.10
per hour)

Note: For Skilled
Worker purposes,
SOC 2020 occupation
code 2119 includes
researchers in
research
organisations other
than universities.
2121 Civil engineers

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 46 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

• Structural engineers
• Transportation
engineers
• Water engineers
(professional)
• Civil engineers not
elsewhere classified
2122 Mechanical
engineers

2122, 2126

• Automotive
engineers
(professional)
• Marine engineers
and naval architects
• Mechanical design
engineers
• Mechanical
engineers not
elsewhere classified

£38,400
(£19.69
per
hour)

£34,600
(£17.74
per hour)

2123 Electrical
engineers

2123, 2126

• Laser engineers
• Power systems
engineers
• Railway signalling
engineers
• Electrical engineers
not elsewhere
classified

£47,100
(£24.15
per
hour)

£42,400
(£21.74
per hour)

2124 Electronics
engineers

2124, 2126,
5242

• Broadcast engineers
(professional)
• Telecommunications
engineers
(professional)
• Electronics
engineers not
elsewhere classified

£41,200
(£21.13
per
hour)

£37,100
(£19.03
per hour)

2125 Production and
process engineers

2127, 5224

• Chemical engineers
• Control and
instrumentation
engineers
• Industrial and
production engineers
• Production and
process engineers not
elsewhere classified

£36,500
(£18.72
per
hour)

£32,900
(£16.87
per hour)

2126 Aerospace
engineers

2122, 2124,
2126, 2129,
5223

• Aeronautical
engineers
(professional)
• Aircraft engineers
(professional)
• Avionics engineers
• Aerospace
engineers not
elsewhere classified

£43,400
(£22.26
per
hour)

£39,000
(£20.00
per hour)

2127 Engineering
project managers and
project engineers

2129

• Engineering project
managers and project
engineers

£40,600
(£20.82
per
hour)

£36,500
(£18.72
per hour)

2129 Engineering
professionals not
elsewhere classified

2126, 2129,
2135

• Acoustic engineers
• Biomedical
engineers
• Brewers (qualified)
• Clinical Engineers
• Energy engineers
• Food technologists

£37,500
(£19.23
per
hour)

£33,700
(£17.28
per hour)

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 47 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

• Gas engineers
(professional)
• Heating and
ventilating engineers
(professional)
• Materials engineers
• Mechatronic
engineers
• Nuclear engineers
• Patent engineers
• Robotics engineers
• Traffic engineers
• Engineering
professionals not
elsewhere classified
2131 IT project
managers

2134

• IT project managers

£42,600
(£21.85
per
hour)

£38,300
(£19.64
per hour)

2132 IT managers

2133

• IT information
managers
• IT product managers
• IT service delivery
managers
• IT systems
managers
• IT test managers
• Network managers
• Software
development
managers
• Technical support
managers
• IT managers not
elsewhere classified

£43,000
(£22.05
per
hour)

£38,700
(£19.85
per hour)

2133 IT business
analysts, architects
and systems
designers

2135, 2137

• Computer analysts
and scientists
• Data architects
• Data engineers
• IT systems architects
• IT business analysts
• IT solutions
architects and
designers
• IT business analysts,
architects and
systems designers not
elsewhere classified

£42,400
(£21.74
per
hour)

£38,100
(£19.54
per hour)

2134 Programmers
and software
development
professionals

2135, 2136,
2137, 2139,
3422

• Computer games
designers
• Computer
programmers
• Software developers
• Programmers and
software development
professionals not
elsewhere classified

£40,000
(£20.51
per
hour)

£36,000
(£18.46
per hour)

2135 Cyber security
professionals

2139, 2426

• Cyber operational
defence specialists
• Cyber security
management and
governance
specialists
• Forensic computer

£35,300
(£18.10
per
hour)

£31,800
(£16.31
per hour)

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 48 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

specialists
• Secure system
development
specialists
• Cyber security
professionals not
elsewhere classified
2136 IT quality and
testing professionals

2139, 2461

• IT quality and testing
professionals

£34,500
(£17.69
per
hour)

£31,000
(£15.90
per hour)

2137 IT network
professionals

2139

• IT network
professionals

£38,100
(£19.54
per
hour)

£34,300
(£17.59
per hour)

2139 Information
technology
professionals not
elsewhere classified

2137, 2139

• DevOps engineers
• IT consultants
• Webmasters and
website managers
• Information
technology
professionals not
elsewhere classified

£38,700
(£19.85
per
hour)

£34,800
(£17.85
per hour)

2141 Web design
professionals

2136, 2137

• Application
designers
• UI and UX designers
and researchers
• Web designers
• Web design
professionals not
elsewhere classified

£31,300
(£16.05
per
hour)

£28,200
(£14.46
per hour)

2142 Graphic and
multimedia designers

2431, 3411,
3421, 3422,
3550, 5421

• Multimedia
animators
• Graphic and
multimedia designers
not elsewhere
classified

£26,200
(£13.44
per
hour)

£25,000
(£12.82
per hour)

2151 Conservation
professionals

2141

• Conservationists
• Ecologists
• Heritage officers
• Conservation
professionals not
elsewhere classified

£29,800
(£15.28
per
hour)

£26,800
(£13.74
per hour)

2152 Environment
professionals

2142, 3550

• Energy managers
• Environmental and
geo-environmental
engineers
• Environmental
consultants
• Environmental
scientists
• Sustainability
officers
• Environmental
professionals not
elsewhere classified

£31,400
(£16.10
per
hour)

£28,300
(£14.51
per hour)

2161 Research and
development (R&D)
managers

1139, 2150

• Laboratory
managers
• Research and
development (R&D)
design managers

£40,000
(£20.51
per
hour)

£36,000
(£18.46
per hour)

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 49 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

• Research and
development (R&D)
managers not
elsewhere classified
2162 Other
researchers,
unspecified discipline

2119, 2426

• Other researchers,
unspecified discipline

£37,400
(£19.18
per
hour)

£33,700
(£17.28
per hour)

2240 Veterinarians

2216

• Veterinarians

£38,000
(£19.49
per
hour)

£34,200
(£17.54
per hour)

2311 Higher education
teaching professionals

2311, 2312

• Higher education
teaching professionals

£40,600
(£20.82
per
hour)

£36,500
(£18.72
per hour)

2317 Teachers of
English as a foreign
language

2319

• Teachers of English
as a Foreign
Language

£30,100
(£15.44
per
hour)

£27,100
(£13.90
per hour)

2319 Teaching
professionals not
elsewhere classified

2319, 3413,
3414

• Adult education
tutors
• Dance and drama
school principals and
owners
• Private music and
singing teachers
• Private tutors
• Teaching
professionals not
elsewhere classified

£27,100
(£13.90
per
hour)

£25,000
(£12.82
per hour)

2322 Education
managers

1259, 2317,
2319

• Education managers

£34,900
(£17.90
per
hour)

£31,400
(£16.10
per hour)

2323 Education
advisers and school
inspectors

2318, 2319

• Educational advisers
• School inspectors

£35,700
(£18.31
per
hour)

£32,100
(£16.46
per hour)

2329 Other
educational
professionals not
elsewhere classified

2317, 2319

• Bursars
• Educational
administrators
• Examiners and
markers
• Other educational
professionals not
elsewhere classified

£30,000
(£15.38
per
hour)

£27,000
(£13.85
per hour)

2411 Barristers and
judges

2412

• Barristers and
advocates
• Judges
• Barristers and
judges not elsewhere
classified

£37,000
(£18.97
per
hour)

£33,300
(£17.08
per hour)

2412 Solicitors and
lawyers

2413, 2419

• Commercial
solicitors and lawyers
• Criminal solicitors
and lawyers
• Family solicitors and
lawyers

£39,000
(£20.00
per
hour)

£35,100
(£18.00
per hour)

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 50 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

• Property solicitors
and lawyers
• Solicitors and
lawyers not elsewhere
classified
2419 Legal
professionals not
elsewhere classified

2419, 3520

• Conveyancers
• Litigation executives
• Paralegals
• Patent and
trademark attorneys
• Legal professionals
not elsewhere
classified

£25,100
(£12.87
per
hour)

£25,000
(£12.82
per hour)

2421 Chartered and
certified accountants

2421

• Auditors (qualified
accountant)
• Financial
accountants
(qualified)
• Forensic
accountants
• Fund accountants
• Insolvency
practitioners
• Chartered and
certified accountants
not elsewhere
classified

£36,900
(£18.92
per
hour)

£33,200
(£17.03
per hour)

2422 Finance and
investment analysts
and advisers

3534, 3537

• Credit analysts
• Financial advisers
and planners
• Financial analysts
• Mortgage advisers
• Finance and
investment analysts
and advisers not
elsewhere classified

£34,200
(£17.54
per
hour)

£30,800
(£15.79
per hour)

2423 Taxation experts

3535

• Taxation experts

£35,400
(£18.15
per
hour)

£31,900
(£16.36
per hour)

2431 Management
consultants and
business analysts

1255, 2423

• Business analysts
and consultants
• Management
advisers and
consultants
• Risk analysts
• Management
consultants and
business analysts not
elsewhere classified

£36,000
(£18.46
per
hour)

£32,400
(£16.62
per hour)

2432 Marketing and
commercial managers

3545

• Commercial
managers
• Marketing managers
• Marketing and
commercial managers
not elsewhere
classified

£39,900
(£20.46
per
hour)

£35,900
(£18.41
per hour)

2433 Actuaries,
economists and
statisticians

2425

• Actuaries and
actuarial analysts
• Economists
• Mathematicians

£40,700
(£20.87
per
hour)

£36,600
(£18.77
per hour)

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 51 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

• Statistical data
scientists
• Statisticians
• Actuaries,
economists and
statisticians not
elsewhere classified
2434 Business and
related research
professionals

2426, 3319,
3543

• Intelligence analysts
• Researchers in
media and
entertainment
• Business and related
research
professionals not
elsewhere classified

£31,500
(£16.15
per
hour)

£28,400
(£14.56
per hour)

2435
Professional/chartered
company secretaries

2429, 4214

•
Professional/chartered
company secretaries

£38,600
(£19.79
per
hour)

£34,700
(£17.79
per hour)

2439 Business,
research and
administrative
professionals not
elsewhere classified

2429, 4215

• Policy officers
• Business, research
and administrative
professionals not
elsewhere classified

£43,200
(£22.15
per
hour)

£38,900
(£19.95
per hour)

2440 Business and
financial project
management
professionals

2424, 3545

• Business change
managers
• Clinical trials
coordinators
• Risk managers
• Business and
financial project
management
professionals not
elsewhere classified

£43,300
(£22.21
per
hour)

£39,000
(£20.00
per hour)

2451 Architects

2431

• Architects
• Landscape
architects and
designers

£37,800
(£19.38
per
hour)

£34,000
(£17.44
per hour)

2452 Chartered
architectural
technologists,
planning officers and
consultants

2431, 2432,
2435, 3121,
3122

• Chartered
architectural
technologists
• Town planning
officers
• Urban designers
• Chartered
architectural
technologists,
planning officers and
consultants not
elsewhere classified

£28,200
(£14.46
per
hour)

£25,300
(£12.97
per hour)

2453 Quantity
surveyors

2433

• Quantity surveyors

£38,500
(£19.74
per
hour)

£34,600
(£17.74
per hour)

2454 Chartered
surveyors

2434, 2435,
3565

• Building control
surveyors
• Hydrographic
surveyors
• Land surveyors
• Property surveyors
• Chartered surveyors

£36,000
(£18.46
per
hour)

£32,400
(£16.62
per hour)

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 52 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

not elsewhere
classified
2455 Construction
project managers and
related professionals

2432, 2436

• Construction project
and contract
managers
• Transport planners
• Construction project
managers and related
professionals not
elsewhere classified

£36,600
(£18.77
per
hour)

£32,900
(£16.87
per hour)

2462 Probation
officers

2443

• Probation officers

£29,400
(£15.08
per
hour)

£26,400
(£13.54
per hour)

2464 Youth work
professionals

2449

• Youth work
professionals

£34,500
(£17.69
per
hour)

£31,000
(£15.90
per hour)

2469 Welfare
professionals not
elsewhere classified

2449

• Adoption officers
• Children and family
services professionals
• Mediators and
restorative practice
professionals
• Welfare
professionals not
elsewhere classified

£33,500
(£17.18
per
hour)

£30,200
(£15.49
per hour)

2471 Librarians

2451

• Librarians

£26,400
(£13.54
per
hour)

£25,000
(£12.82
per hour)

2472 Archivists,
conservators and
curators

2452

• Archivists
• Collection managers
and curators
• Conservators
• Museum education
officers
• Archivists and
curators not
elsewhere classified

£29,600
(£15.18
per
hour)

£26,700
(£13.69
per hour)

2481 Quality control
and planning
engineers

2461, 3115

• Garment
technologists
• Planning engineers
• Quality control
engineers
• Quality control and
planning engineers
not elsewhere
classified

£34,100
(£17.49
per
hour)

£30,700
(£15.74
per hour)

2482 Quality
assurance and
regulatory
professionals

2462, 3567

• Compliance and
regulatory
professionals
• Quality assurance
professionals

£38,100
(£19.54
per
hour)

£34,300
(£17.59
per hour)

2483 Environmental
health professionals

2463

• Environmental
health professionals

£34,100
(£17.49
per
hour)

£30,700
(£15.74
per hour)

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 53 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

2491 Newspaper,
periodical and
broadcast editors

2471

• Newspaper,
periodical and
broadcast editors

£32,200
(£16.51
per
hour)

£28,900
(£14.82
per hour)

2492 Newspaper and
periodical broadcast
journalists and
reporters

2471

• Broadcast journalists
• Newspaper
journalists and
reporters
• Newspaper and
periodical journalists
and reporters not
elsewhere classified

£25,500
(£13.08
per
hour)

£25,000
(£12.82
per hour)

2493 Public relations
professionals

2472

• Press officers
• Public relations
officers
• Social media
managers
• Public relations
professionals not
elsewhere classified

£30,100
(£15.44
per
hour)

£27,100
(£13.90
per hour)

2494 Advertising
accounts managers
and creative directors

2473

• Advertising account
managers
• Creative directors
• Fundraising
managers

£37,200
(£19.08
per
hour)

£33,500
(£17.18
per hour)

3415 Musicians

3415

• Composers and
musical arrangers
• Music conductors
• Instrumentalists
• Musicians not
elsewhere classified

£30,100
(£15.44
per
hour)

Not
applicable

3416 Arts officers,
producers and
directors

2471, 3412,
3416

• Art consultants
• Broadcasting and
entertainment
directors
• Broadcasting and
entertainment editors
• Broadcasting and
entertainment
producers
• Studio and stage
managers
• Arts officers,
producers and
directors not
elsewhere classified

£28,800
(£14.77
per
hour)

Not
applicable

3511 Aircraft pilots
and air traffic
controllers

3511, 3512

• Airline pilots
• Air traffic controllers
• Flying instructors
• Helicopter pilots
• Aircraft pilots and air
traffic controllers not
elsewhere classified

£64,100
(£32.87
per
hour)

Not
applicable

3531 Brokers

3532

• Commodity brokers
and traders
• Insurance and
mortgage brokers
• Shipbrokers
• Stockbrokers
• Brokers not

£40,000
(£20.51
per
hour)

Not
applicable

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 54 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

elsewhere classified
3534 Financial
accounts managers

1150, 3538

• Claims managers
• Credit managers
• Investment
managers
• Relationship
managers
• Financial accounts
managers not
elsewhere classified

£34,800
(£17.85
per
hour)

Not
applicable

3556 Sales accounts
and business
development
managers

1121, 1133,
3538, 3545

• Brand managers
• Business
development
managers
• Sales account
managers
• Sales accounts and
business development
managers not
elsewhere classified

£40,500
(£20.77
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Table 2aa: Additional eligible SOC 2020 occupation
codes and related going rates for Skilled Worker
applicants granted permission under the rules in place
before 22 July 2025
These SOC 2020 occupation codes are considered to be skilled to
Regulated Qualifications Framework (RQF) level 3-5, other than “6135 Care
workers and home carers”, which is considered to be skilled to RQF level 2.
This table relates to points options F-J set out in Appendix Skilled Worker.
Except where option I or the Temporary Shortage List in SW 6.1A applies,
sponsors may ONLYsponsor Skilled Worker applicants in these SOC2020
occupation codes if the applicant was granted permission as a Skilled
Worker under the rules in place before 22 July 2025, and they have had
continuous permission as a Skilled Worker since then.
These SOC 2020 occupation codes are not eligible for the Global Business
Mobility or Scale-up routes.
Other than skill level, the notes accompanying Table 2 also apply to this
table.
SOC 2020
occupation
code

Equivalent
SOC 2010
occupation
code(s)

Examples of
related job titles
(non-exclusive)

Going
rate
(SW –
options
F and I,
GBM
and
SCU)

90% of
going
rate (SW
– option
G)

1150 Managers
and directors in
retail and
wholesale

1121, 1190,
3545

• Managers and
directors in retail
and wholesale

£29,400
(£15.08
per
hour)

£26,400
(£13.54
per hour)

1211 Managers
and proprietors
in agriculture
and horticulture

1211

• Managers and
proprietors in
agriculture and
horticulture

£29,100
(£14.92
per
hour)

Not
applicable

1212 Managers

1213, 5223

• Cattery and

£25,800

Not

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 55 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

and proprietors
in forestry,
fishing and
related services

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

kennel managers
and proprietors
• Fisheries
managers and
proprietors
• Forestry
managers
• Livery yard and
stud farm
managers and
proprietors
• Racehorse
trainers
• Managers and
proprietors in
forestry, fishing
and related
services not
elsewhere
classified

(£13.23
per
hour)

applicable

1221 Hotel and
accommodation
managers and
proprietors

1221

• Hotel and
accommodation
managers and
proprietors

£29,800
(£15.28
per
hour)

Not
applicable

1222
Restaurant and
catering
establishment
managers and
proprietors

1223

• Café and
restaurant
managers and
proprietors
• Catering
operations
managers
• Takeaway
managers and
proprietors
• Restaurant and
catering
establishment
managers and
proprietors not
elsewhere
classified

£26,100
(£13.38
per
hour)

Not
applicable

1223 Publicans
and managers
of licensed
premises

1224

• Publicans and
managers of
licensed premises

£30,900
(£15.85
per
hour)

Not
applicable

1224 Leisure
and sports
managers and
proprietors

1225, 1253

• Cinema
managers and
proprietors
• Golf course
managers
• Gym, fitness and
leisure services
managers and
proprietors
• Marina managers
• Museum
managers and
proprietors
• Parks and
gardens managers
• Theatre
managers
(excludes hospital
service)
• Leisure and

£26,600
(£13.64
per
hour)

Not
applicable

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 56 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

sports managers
and proprietors not
elsewhere
classified
1225 Travel
agency
managers and
proprietors

1226

• Travel agency
managers and
proprietors

£30,000
(£15.38
per
hour)

Not
applicable

1231 Health
care practice
managers

1241

• Dental practice
managers
• Medical practice
managers
• Opticians
managers
• Veterinary
practice managers
• Health care
practice managers
not elsewhere
classified

£32,600
(£16.72
per
hour)

Not
applicable

1232
Residential,
day and
domiciliary care
managers and
proprietors

1121, 1184,
1242, 1259

• Day care
managers
• Home care
managers
• Residential care
managers and
proprietors
• Residential, day
and domiciliary
care managers
and proprietors not
elsewhere
classified

£32,000
(£16.41
per
hour)

Not
applicable

1233 Early
education and
childcare
services
proprietors

1259, 2319,
6121

• Early education
and childcare
services
proprietors

£25,000
(£12.82
per
hour)

Not
applicable

1242 Managers
in storage and
warehousing

1162

• Managers in
storage and
warehousing

£29,100
(£14.92
per
hour)

Not
applicable

1243 Managers
in logistics

1133, 1161,
1162

• Managers in
logistics

£37,300
(£19.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

1251 Property,
housing and
estate
managers

1251

• Facilities
managers
• Landlords,
property and
housing managers
• Property
investors and
developers
• Sales and
lettings managers
• Shopping centre
managers
• Property, housing
and estate
managers not
elsewhere

£32,500
(£16.67
per
hour)

Not
applicable

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 57 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

classified
1252 Garage
managers and
proprietors

1252

• Garage
managers and
proprietors

£36,300
(£18.62
per
hour)

Not
applicable

1253
Hairdressing
and beauty
salon
managers and
proprietors

1253

• Beauty salon
managers and
proprietors
• Hairdressing
managers and
proprietors
• Hairdressing and
beauty salon
managers and
proprietors not
elsewhere
classified

£27,000
(£13.85
per
hour)

Not
applicable

1256 Betting
shop and
gambling
establishment
managers

1225, 1259

• Betting shop
managers
• Bingo hall
managers
• Casino managers
• Betting shop and
gambling
establishment
managers not
elsewhere
classified

£27,100
(£13.90
per
hour)

Not
applicable

1257 Hire
services
managers and
proprietors

1255, 1259

• Hire services
managers and
proprietors

£28,200
(£14.46
per
hour)

Not
applicable

1258 Directors
in consultancy
services

1259

• Design
consultancy
directors
• Environmental
consultancy
directors
• Management
consultancy
directors
• Surveying
consultancy
directors
• Directors in
consultancy
services not
elsewhere
classified

£44,600
(£22.87
per
hour)

Not
applicable

1259 Managers
and proprietors
in other
services not
elsewhere
classified

1139, 1259

• Cleaning and
hygiene services
managers and
proprietors
• Educational
establishment
managers and
proprietors
• Funeral services
and crematorium
managers and
proprietors
• Library managers
• Recruitment

£33,100
(£16.97
per
hour)

Not
applicable

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 58 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

agency managers
and proprietors
• Security services
managers and
proprietors
• Managers and
proprietors in other
services not
elsewhere
classified
2324 Early
education and
childcare
services
managers

1225, 1242,
1259, 2319,
6121

• Early education
and childcare
services managers

£25,000
(£12.82
per
hour)

£25,000
(£12.82
per hour)

3111
Laboratory
technicians

3111

• Biological
laboratory
technicians
• Chemical
laboratory
technicians
• Health physics
monitors
• Laboratory food
technicians
• Medical
laboratory
technicians
• Laboratory
technicians not
elsewhere
classified

£25,000
(£12.82
per
hour)

£25,000
(£12.82
per hour)

3112 Electrical
and electronics
technicians

3112

• Avionics
technicians
• Electrical and
electronics
technicians not
elsewhere
classified

£30,800
(£15.79
per
hour)

£27,800
(£14.26
per hour)

3113
Engineering
technicians

3113

• Aerospace
technicians
• Wind turbine
technicians
• Engineering
technicians not
elsewhere
classified

£34,700
(£17.79
per
hour)

£31,200
(£16.00
per hour)

3114 Building
and civil
engineering
technicians

3114

• Building
technicians
• Civil engineering
technicians
• Surveying
technicians
• Building and civil
engineering
technicians not
elsewhere
classified

£27,900
(£14.31
per
hour)

£25,100
(£12.87
per hour)

3115 Quality
assurance
technicians

3115

• Quality
assurance
technicians

£26,500
(£13.59
per
hour)

£25,000
(£12.82
per hour)

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 59 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

3116 Planning,
process and
production
technicians

3116

• Planning,
process and
production
technicians

£28,700
(£14.72
per
hour)

£25,900
(£13.28
per hour)

3119 Science,
engineering
and production
technicians not
elsewhere
classified

3111, 3119,
3411

• School
technicians
• Textile
consultants
• Science,
engineering and
production
technicians not
elsewhere
classified

£28,000
(£14.36
per
hour)

£25,200
(£12.92
per hour)

3120 CAD,
drawing and
architectural
technicians

2435, 3121,
3122

• Architectural
technicians
• BIM and CAD
technicians
• Cartographers
• CAD, drawing
and architectural
technicians not
elsewhere
classified

£28,700
(£14.72
per
hour)

£25,800
(£13.23
per hour)

3131 IT
operations
technicians

3131, 5245

• Games testers
• Network and
systems
administrators
• Quality
assurance testers
• Software
technicians
• IT operations
technicians not
elsewhere
classified

£27,700
(£14.21
per
hour)

£25,000
(£12.82
per hour)

3132 IT user
support
technicians

3132, 5245

• IT user support
technicians

£27,700
(£14.21
per
hour)

£25,000
(£12.82
per hour)

3133 Database
administrators
and web
content
technicians

2137, 3131,
7220

• Database
administrators
• Web content
technicians
• Database
administrators and
web content
technicians not
elsewhere
classified

£29,200
(£14.97
per
hour)

£26,200
(£13.44
per hour)

3211
Dispensing
opticians

2214, 3216

• Dispensing
opticians

£25,100
(£12.87
per
hour)

Not
applicable

3212
Pharmaceutical
technicians

3217

• Pharmaceutical
technicians

£25,000
(£12.82
per
hour)

Not
applicable

3221 Youth and
community
workers

3231, 3239,
3531

• Community
workers
• Family support

£26,500
(£13.59
per

Not
applicable

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 60 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

workers
• Youth workers
(excludes youth
work
professionals)
• Youth and
community
workers not
elsewhere
classified

hour)

3222 Child and
early years
officers

3239

• Child protection
officers
• Learning and
behaviour mentors
• Welfare and
attendance officers
• Child and early
years officers not
elsewhere
classified

£25,400
(£13.03
per
hour)

Not
applicable

3223 Housing
officers

3234

• Housing officers

£27,800
(£14.26
per
hour)

Not
applicable

3224
Counsellors

3235, 3239

• Bereavement
counsellors
• Debt advisers
• Life coaches
• Relationship
counsellors
• Substance
misuse workers
• Counsellors not
elsewhere
classified

£26,200
(£13.44
per
hour)

Not
applicable

3229 Welfare
and housing
associate
professionals
not elsewhere
classified

2129, 2318,
2412, 3239

• Advocates
(excludes solicitor
advocates)
• Celebrants
• Charity workers
• Day care officers
• Health advisers
• Homelessness
and housing
advice support
workers
• Mental health
project workers
• Probation service
workers
• Student support
workers
• Victim support
workers
• Welfare and
housing associate
professionals not
elsewhere
classified

£25,400
(£13.03
per
hour)

Not
applicable

3232 Early
education and
childcare
practitioners

6121, 6126

• Early education
and childcare
practitioners

£25,000
(£12.82
per
hour)

Not
applicable

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 61 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

3240 Veterinary
nurses

6131

• Veterinary nurses

£25,000
(£12.82
per
hour)

Not
applicable

3312 Police
officers
(sergeant and
below)

3312

• Police constable
• Police sergeant
• Police officers
(sergeant and
below) not
elsewhere
classified

£36,700
(£18.82
per
hour)

Not
applicable

3313 Fire
service officers
(watch
manager and
below)

1173, 3313

• Firefighters
• Fire service crew
managers
• Watch managers
• Fire service
officers (watch
manager and
below) not
elsewhere
classified

£37,600
(£19.28
per
hour)

Not
applicable

3314 Prison
service officers
(below principal
officer)

3314

• Operational
support grades
• Prison officers
• Prison service
officers (below
principal officer)
not elsewhere
classified

£31,600
(£16.21
per
hour)

Not
applicable

3319 Protective
service
associate
professionals
not elsewhere
classified

3319

• Coastguard
• Customs and
border control
officers
• Fraud
investigators
(excludes benefit
fraud)
• Immigration
officers
• Private
investigators
• Security
consultants and
managers
(excludes cyber
security)
• Protective
service associate
professionals not
elsewhere
classified

£33,200
(£17.03
per
hour)

Not
applicable

3411 Artists

3411

• Art technicians
(excludes
education)
• Drawing and
painting artists
• Hand drawn
animators
• Illustrators
(excludes medical
and scientific)
• Medical and
scientific
illustrators

£26,600
(£13.64
per
hour)

Not
applicable

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 62 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

• Picture restorers
• Sculptors
• Tattoo and henna
artists
• Artists not
elsewhere
classified
3412 Authors,
writers and
translators

3412

• Authors
• Bloggers
• Copywriters
• Literary editors
• Poets
• Script writers
• Technical writers
(excludes
computing)
• Translators and
interpreters
• Authors, writers
and translators not
elsewhere
classified

£29,800
(£15.28
per
hour)

Not
applicable

3413 Actors,
entertainers
and presenters

3413, 3415,
3416

• Actors
• Broadcasters,
podcasters and
presenters
• Children’s
entertainers
• Comedians
• Disc jockeys
• Magicians
• Models
• Singers
• Social media
influencers
• Actors,
entertainers and
presenters not
elsewhere
classified

£25,000
(£12.82
per
hour)

Not
applicable

3414 Dancers
and
choreographers

3414

• Choreographers
• Dance teachers
(excludes
educational
establishments)
• Dancers

£28,500
(£14.62
per
hour)

Not
applicable

3417
Photographers,
audio-visual
and
broadcasting
equipment
operators

3417

• Camera
operators and
videographers
• Lighting
designers
• Photographers
• Sound designers
• Sound engineers
• Theatre
technicians
(excludes
hospitals)
• Photographers,
audio-visual and
broadcasting
equipment
operators not
elsewhere
classified

£25,400
(£13.03
per
hour)

Not
applicable

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 63 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

3421 Interior
designers

2431, 3422

• Interior designers

£29,600
(£15.18
per
hour)

Not
applicable

3422 Clothing,
fashion and
accessories
designers

3122, 3422

• Clothing and
fashion
consultants
• Clothing and
fashion designers
• Footwear
designers
• Jewellery
designers
• Textile designers
• Clothing, fashion
and accessories
designers not
elsewhere
classified

£29,100
(£14.92
per
hour)

Not
applicable

3429 Design
occupations not
elsewhere
classified

2431, 3122,
3422, 7125

• Industrial and
product designers
• Packaging
designers
• Performance
make-up artists
• Set designers
• Visual
merchandising
managers and
designers
• Design
occupations not
elsewhere
classified

£29,800
(£15.28
per
hour)

Not
applicable

3433 Fitness
and wellbeing
instructors

3443

• Group fitness
instructors and
personal trainers
• Pilates teachers
• Yoga teachers
• Fitness and
wellbeing
instructors not
elsewhere
classified

£25,000
(£12.82
per
hour)

Not
applicable

3512 Ship and
hovercraft
officers

3513

• Ship and
hovercraft captains
and deck officers
(excludes armed
forces and fishing)
• Marine engineers
• Ship and
hovercraft officers
not elsewhere
classified

£39,100
(£20.05
per
hour)

Not
applicable

3520 Legal
associate
professionals

2419, 3520

• Conveyancing
professionals
• Cost lawyers
• Barrister’s and
judge’s clerks
• Litigation officers
• Probate
managers
• Will writers

£26,400
(£13.54
per
hour)

Not
applicable

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 64 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

• Legal associate
professionals not
elsewhere
classified
3532 Insurance
underwriters

3533

• Insurance
underwriters

£29,800
(£15.28
per
hour)

Not
applicable

3533 Financial
and accounting
technicians

3537

• Accounting
technicians
• Financial control
technicians
• Financial and
accounting
technicians not
elsewhere
classified

£32,900
(£16.87
per
hour)

Not
applicable

3541
Estimators,
valuers and
assessors

3531

• Energy advisers
and assessors
• Estimators
• Loss adjusters
• Valuers
• Vehicle damage
assessors
• Estimators,
valuers and
assessors not
elsewhere
classified

£28,600
(£14.67
per
hour)

Not
applicable

3542 Importers
and exporters

3536

• Importers and
exporters

£29,800
(£15.28
per
hour)

Not
applicable

3543 Project
support officers

2136, 3113,
3534, 3539

• Project support
officers

£28,900
(£14.82
per
hour)

Not
applicable

3544 Data
analysts

3539

• Data analysts

£28,600
(£14.67
per
hour)

Not
applicable

3549 Business
associate
professionals
not elsewhere
classified

3539

• Business support
officers
• Business
systems analysts
• Contract
administrators
• Clinical coders
• Clinical trials
administrators
• Research
coordinators
• Business
associate
professionals not
elsewhere
classified

£25,500
(£13.08
per
hour)

Not
applicable

3551 Buyers
and
procurement
officers

3541

• Buyers and
procurement
officers

£29,300
(£15.03
per
hour)

Not
applicable

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 65 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

3552 Business
sales
executives

3542, 4151

• Business sales
executives

£29,300
(£15.03
per
hour)

Not
applicable

3553
Merchandisers

3539, 3541,
3543, 7125

• Merchandisers

£25,200
(£12.92
per
hour)

Not
applicable

3554
Advertising and
marketing
associate
professionals

3412, 3416,
3543, 4151,
7215

• Advertising and
marketing
executives
• Fundraisers
• Market
researchers
(excludes
interviewers)
• Marketing
associate
professionals not
elsewhere
classified

£26,300
(£13.49
per
hour)

Not
applicable

3555 Estate
agents and
auctioneers

3542, 3544,
3565, 5319

• Estate agents
• Land and
property
auctioneers and
valuers
• Letting agents
• Estate agents
and auctioneers
not elsewhere
classified

£25,000
(£12.82
per
hour)

Not
applicable

3557 Events
managers and
organisers

3546

• Conference
managers and
organisers
• Exhibition
managers and
organisers
• Festival
managers and
organisers
• Hospitality
managers
• Wedding
planners and
organisers
• Event managers
and organisers not
elsewhere
classified

£25,000
(£12.82
per
hour)

Not
applicable

3560 Public
services
associate
professionals

3561

• Electoral services
officers
• Health service
administrators
• Job Centre
officers
• Waste
management
officers
• Public services
associate
professionals not
elsewhere
classified

£34,000
(£17.44
per
hour)

Not
applicable

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 66 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

3571 Human
resources and
industrial
relations
officers

3562

• Equality and
diversity officers
• Human
resources advisers
• Recruitment
consultants
• Human
resources and
industrial relations
officers not
elsewhere
classified

£27,100
(£13.90
per
hour)

Not
applicable

3572 Careers
advisers and
vocational
guidance
specialists

3564

• Careers advisers
and coaches
• Work placement
officers
• Careers advisers
and vocational
guidance
specialists not
elsewhere
classified

£26,700
(£13.69
per
hour)

Not
applicable

3573
Information
technology
trainers

3563

• Information
technology trainers

£32,100
(£16.46
per
hour)

Not
applicable

3574 Other
vocational and
industrial
trainers

3531, 3563

• Business
coaches
• Retail and store
trainers
• Training
assessors
• Other vocational
and industrial
trainers not
elsewhere
classified

£28,200
(£14.46
per
hour)

Not
applicable

3581
Inspectors of
standards and
regulations

3565

• Animal health
inspectors and
officers
• Building control
officers
• Driving
examiners
• Health and safety
inspectors
• Housing and
planning
inspectors
• Licensing officers
• Meat hygiene
inspectors
• Nuclear safety
inspectors
• Trading
standards officers
• Traffic and
vehicle examiners
and inspectors
• Inspectors of
standards and
regulations not
elsewhere
classified

£30,000
(£15.38
per
hour)

Not
applicable

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 67 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

3582 Health
and safety
managers and
officers

1259, 2434,
3567

• Asbestos safety
officers
• Fire safety
managers and
officers
• Occupational
health and safety
managers and
officers
• Road traffic and
transport safety
officers
• Occupational
hygienists
• Health and safety
managers and
officers not
elsewhere
classified

£34,800
(£17.85
per
hour)

Not
applicable

4111 National
government
administrative
occupations

3531, 3564,
4112

• National
government
benefits officers
• National
government
revenue officers
• Passport officers
• National
government
administrative
occupations not
elsewhere
classified

£25,900
(£13.28
per
hour)

Not
applicable

4112 Local
government
administrative
occupations

3119, 3550

• Local
government
benefits officers
• Local
government
housing assistants
• Local
government
revenue officers
• Parish clerks
• Local
government
administrative
occupations not
elsewhere
classified

£26,000
(£13.33
per
hour)

Not
applicable

4113 Officers of
nongovernmental
organisations

4114

• Charity
administrators
• Clerks to
governors
• Union officials
• Officers of nongovernmental
organisations not
elsewhere
classified

£25,000
(£12.82
per
hour)

Not
applicable

4121 Credit
controllers

• Credit controllers

£25,200
(£12.92
per
hour)

Not
applicable

4122 Bookkeepers, payroll

• Accounting clerks
and bookkeepers

£25,400
(£13.03

Not
applicable

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 68 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

managers and
wages clerks

• Payroll officers
and wages clerks
• Bookkeepers,
payroll managers
and wage clerks
not elsewhere
classified

per
hour)

4124 Finance
officers

• Finance officers

£25,600
(£13.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

4129 Financial
administrative
occupations not
elsewhere
classified

• Box office
assistants
• Grants officers
• Mortgage
administrators
• Revenue
assistants
(excludes National
and Local
government
revenue
occupations)
• Treasury
assistants
• Finance
administrative
occupations not
elsewhere
classified

£25,000
(£12.82
per
hour)

Not
applicable

4132 Pensions
and insurance
clerks and
assistants

• Claims handlers
• Insurance
administrators
• Pensions
administrators
• Pensions and
insurance clerks
and assistants not
elsewhere
classified

£25,000
(£12.82
per
hour)

Not
applicable

4134 Transport
and distribution
clerks and
assistants

4134

• Transport and
distribution clerks
and assistants

£25,900
(£13.28
per
hour)

Not
applicable

4141 Office
managers

1241, 4161

• Office managers

£30,000
(£15.38
per
hour)

Not
applicable

4143 Customer
service
managers

7220

• Call centre
managers
• Customer service
managers not
elsewhere
classified

£27,600
(£14.15
per
hour)

Not
applicable

4151 Sales
administrators

4151

• Sales
administrators

£25,000
(£12.82
per
hour)

Not
applicable

• Business
administrators
• Church

£25,000
(£12.82
per

Not
applicable

4159 Other
administrative
occupations not

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 69 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

elsewhere
classified

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

administrators
• Facilities
coordinators
• Proofreaders
• Property
administrators
• Warranty
administrators
• Other
administrative
occupations not
elsewhere
classified

hour)

4214 Company
secretaries and
administrators

4214

• Company
secretaries and
administrators

£27,100
(£13.90
per
hour)

Not
applicable

4215 Personal
assistants and
other
secretaries

4215

• Farm secretaries
• Personal
assistants
(excludes care
workers)
• Personal
assistants and
other secretaries
not elsewhere
classified

£27,400
(£14.05
per
hour)

Not
applicable

5111 Farmers

5111

• Agricultural
contractors
• Aquaculture
farmers
• Arable farmers
• Dairy farmers
• Livestock farmers
• Poultry farmers
• Farmers not
elsewhere
classified

£28,200
(£14.46
per
hour)

Not
applicable

5112
Horticultural
trades

5112

• Horticultural
trades

£25,000
(£12.82
per
hour)

Not
applicable

5113
Gardeners and
landscape
gardeners

5113, 9119

• Garden
designers
• Gardeners
(excludes
horticultural/market
gardening)
• Green roof
installers
• Landscape
gardeners
• Gardeners and
landscape
gardeners not
elsewhere
classified

£25,000
(£12.82
per
hour)

Not
applicable

5114
Groundsmen
and
greenkeepers

5114

• Groundsmen and
greenkeepers

£25,000
(£12.82
per
hour)

Not
applicable

5119

3550, 5119

• Arborists

£25,000

Not

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 70 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

Agricultural and
fishing trades
not elsewhere
classified

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

• Beekeepers
• Countryside and
park officers and
rangers
• Falconers
• Fish and river
keepers
• Fishers
• Gamekeepers
• Agricultural and
fishing trades not
elsewhere
classified

(£12.82
per
hour)

applicable

5211 Sheet
metal workers

5213

• Metal fabricators
and finishers
• Panel beaters
(excludes vehicles)
• Whitesmiths
• Sheet metal
workers not
elsewhere
classified

£26,800
(£13.74
per
hour)

Not
applicable

5212 Metal
plate workers,
smiths,
moulders and
related
occupations

5211, 5212,
5214

• Die casters
• Farriers
• Moulders, mould
makers and core
makers
• Smiths
• Metal plate
workers, smiths,
moulders and
related
occupations not
elsewhere
classified

£29,200
(£14.97
per
hour)

Not
applicable

5213 Welding
trades

5215

• Braziers and
solderers
• Pipe welders
• Plate welders
• Welding trades
not elsewhere
classified

£29,500
(£15.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

5214 Pipe
fitters

5216

• Pipe fitters

£40,400
(£20.72
per
hour)

Not
applicable

5221 Metal
machining
setters and
setter-operators

5221

• Computer
numerical control
(CNC) machine
setters and setteroperators
• Metal machining
setters and setteroperators not
elsewhere
classified

£28,500
(£14.62
per
hour)

Not
applicable

5222 Tool
makers, tool
fitters and
markers-out

5222

• Tool fitters
• Tool makers
• Tool makers, tool
fitters and
markers-out not
elsewhere
classified

£33,400
(£17.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 71 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

5223 Metal
working
production and
maintenance
fitters

5223, 5225,
5237

• Automation
maintenance
technicians
• Bicycle
mechanics
• Catering
equipment
technicians
• Door fitters and
makers
• Gunsmiths
• Heavy plant
maintenance
technicians
• Hydraulic
technicians
• Lift technicians
• Locksmiths
• Pump
technicians
• Textile machine
technicians
• Turbine fitters
• Metal working
production and
maintenance fitters
not elsewhere
classified

£29,900
(£15.33
per
hour)

Not
applicable

5224 Precision
instrument
makers and
repairers

5224

• Calibration and
precision
instrument
technicians
• Camera and
photographic
equipment
technicians
• Horologists,
watch makers and
repairers
• Optical
technicians
• Precision
instrument makers
and repairers not
elsewhere
classified

£28,300
(£14.51
per
hour)

Not
applicable

5225 Airconditioning
and
refrigeration
installers and
repairers

5225

• Air-conditioning
and refrigeration
installers and
repairers

£35,500
(£18.21
per
hour)

Not
applicable

5231 Vehicle
technicians,
mechanics and
electricians

5231

• Auto electricians
• Car/light vehicle
technicians
• Heavy and large
vehicle technicians
• Motorcycle
technicians
• Motorsport
technicians
• MOT testers
• Roadside
assistance
technicians

£27,900
(£14.31
per
hour)

Not
applicable

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 72 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

• Vehicle
technicians,
mechanics and
electricians not
elsewhere
classified
5232 Vehicle
body builders
and repairers

5232

• Vehicle body
builders and
repairers

£27,600
(£14.15
per
hour)

Not
applicable

5233 Vehicle
paint
technicians

5232, 5234

• Vehicle paint
technicians

£29,600
(£15.18
per
hour)

Not
applicable

5234 Aircraft
maintenance
and related
trades

5235

• Aircraft
maintenance and
related trades

£34,800
(£17.85
per
hour)

Not
applicable

5235 Boat and
ship builders
and repairers

5236

• Boat and ship
builders and
repairers

£29,600
(£15.18
per
hour)

Not
applicable

5236 Rail and
rolling stock
builders and
repairers

5237

• Rail and rolling
stock builders and
repairers

£38,800
(£19.90
per
hour)

Not
applicable

5241
Electricians and
electrical fitters

5241

• Electric vehicle
charging point
installers
• Electromechanical
technicians
• Installation and
maintenance
electricians
• Smart energy
experts
• Solar panel
installers
• Street lighting
electrician
• Electricians and
electrical fitters not
elsewhere
classified

£31,500
(£16.15
per
hour)

Not
applicable

5242 Telecoms
and related
network
installers and
repairers

5242, 5249

• Telecoms and
related network
installers and
repairers

£31,700
(£16.26
per
hour)

Not
applicable

5243 TV, video
and audio
servicers and
repairers

5244

• TV, video and
audio servicers
and repairers

£25,100
(£12.87
per
hour)

Not
applicable

5244 Computer
system and
equipment
installers and
servicers

5245, 5249

• Computer system
and equipment
installers and
servicers

£26,700
(£13.69
per
hour)

Not
applicable

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 73 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

5245 Security
system
installers and
repairers

5249

• Security system
installers and
repairers

£28,800
(£14.77
per
hour)

Not
applicable

5246 Electrical
service and
maintenance
mechanics and
repairers

5241, 5249

• Electrical service
and maintenance
mechanics and
repairers

£33,800
(£17.33
per
hour)

Not
applicable

5249 Electrical
and electronic
trades not
elsewhere
classified

5249

• Broadcast and
communications
technicians
• Overhead line
workers
• Signal workers
• Electrical and
electronic trades
not elsewhere
classified

£35,600
(£18.26
per
hour)

Not
applicable

5250 Skilled
metal, electrical
and electronic
trades
supervisors

1252, 5250

• Skilled metal,
electrical and
electronic trades
supervisors

£36,500
(£18.72
per
hour)

Not
applicable

5311 Steel
erectors

5311

• Steel erectors

£29,500
(£15.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

5312
Stonemasons
and related
trades

5312

• Dry stone wallers
• Monumental
masons
• Stonemasons
• Stonemasons
and related trades
not elsewhere
classified

£28,500
(£14.62
per
hour)

Not
applicable

5313
Bricklayers

5312

• Bricklayers

£25,000
(£12.82
per
hour)

Not
applicable

5314 Roofers,
roof tilers and
slaters

5313

• Felt and flat
roofers
• Sheeters and
cladders
• Thatchers
• Tilers and slaters
• Roofers, roof
tilers and slaters
not elsewhere
classified

£25,300
(£12.97
per
hour)

Not
applicable

5315 Plumbers
and heating
and ventilating
installers and
repairers

5314

• Plumbers and
heating and
ventilation
installers and
repairers

£31,400
(£16.10
per
hour)

Not
applicable

5316
Carpenters and
joiners

5315

• Bedroom and
kitchen fitters
• Carpenters
• Joiners
• Carpenters and

£27,800
(£14.26
per
hour)

Not
applicable

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 74 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

joiners not
elsewhere
classified
5317 Glaziers,
window
fabricators and
fitters

5249, 5316

• Glass cutters and
glaziers
• Window
fabricators
• Window fitters
• Glaziers, window
fabricators and
fitters not
elsewhere
classified

£25,800
(£13.23
per
hour)

Not
applicable

5319
Construction
and building
trades not
elsewhere
classified

5319

• Builders
• Divers
• Fence erectors
• Industrial
climbers
• Remotely
Operated Vehicle
(ROV) operators
• Steel fixers and
underpinners
• Construction and
building trades not
elsewhere
classified

£27,300
(£14.00
per
hour)

Not
applicable

5321 Plasterers

5321

• Dry liners
• Plasterers (wall
and decorative)

£29,500
(£15.13
per
hour)

Not
applicable

5322 Floorers
and wall tilers

5313, 5322

• Carpet and
linoleum fitters
• Floor layers
• Tilers
• Floorers and wall
tilers not
elsewhere
classified

£25,400
(£13.03
per
hour)

Not
applicable

5323 Painters
and decorators

5323

• Painters and
decorators

£27,800
(£14.26
per
hour)

Not
applicable

5330
Construction
and building
trades
supervisors

5330

• Carpenter and
joinery supervisors
• Demolition
supervisors
• Painting
supervisors
• Plumbing
supervisors
• Road
construction
supervisors
• Roofing
supervisors
• Scaffolding
supervisors
• Construction and
building trade
supervisors not
elsewhere
classified

£34,600
(£17.74
per
hour)

Not
applicable

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 75 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

5411
Upholsterers

5412

• Curtain makers
• Trimmers and
upholsterers
• Upholsterers not
elsewhere
classified

£25,000
(£12.82
per
hour)

Not
applicable

5412 Footwear
and leather
working trades

5413

• Footwear makers
and repairers
• Leather workers
(excludes leather
dressing)
• Footwear and
leather working
trades not
elsewhere
classified

£25,000
(£12.82
per
hour)

Not
applicable

5413 Tailors
and
dressmakers

5414

• Costume makers
• Dressmakers
• Fitters and
alterations
assistants
• Kilt makers
• Milliners
(excludes
wholesale, retail
trade)
• Tailors
• Tailors and
dressmakers not
elsewhere
classified

£25,000
(£12.82
per
hour)

Not
applicable

5419 Textiles,
garments and
related trades
not elsewhere
classified

5411, 5419

• Embroiderers
and sewers
• Knitters
• Sail makers
• Weavers
(excludes basket,
wig and wire
goods mfr)
• Textiles,
garments and
related trades not
elsewhere
classified

£25,000
(£12.82
per
hour)

Not
applicable

5421 Pre-press
technicians

5421

• Pre-press
technicians

£25,000
(£12.82
per
hour)

Not
applicable

5422 Printers

5422

• Digital printers
• Flexographic
printers
• Lithographic
printers
• Screen printers
• Printers not
elsewhere
classified

£26,200
(£13.44
per
hour)

Not
applicable

5423 Print
finishing and
binding workers

5423

• Print finishing
and binding
workers

£25,000
(£12.82
per
hour)

Not
applicable

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 76 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

5431 Butchers

5431

• Butchers
• Slaughterers

£25,000
(£12.82
per
hour)

Not
applicable

5432 Bakers
and flour
confectioners

5432

• Bakers (excludes
food process
bakery workers
and textile
manufacturing)
• Cake decorators
and designers
• Bakers and flour
confectioners not
elsewhere
classified

£25,000
(£12.82
per
hour)

Not
applicable

5433
Fishmongers
and poultry
dressers

5433

• Fishmongers
• Poultry dressers
• Fishmongers and
poultry dressers
not elsewhere
classified

£25,000
(£12.82
per
hour)

Not
applicable

5434 Chefs

5434

• Chefs

£25,000
(£12.82
per
hour)

Not
applicable

5436 Catering
and bar
managers

5436

• Catering and bar
managers

£25,000
(£12.82
per
hour)

Not
applicable

5441 Glass and
ceramics
makers,
decorators and
finishers

5441

• Ceramic makers,
decorators and
finishers
• Ceramic potters
• Glass blowers
• Glass makers,
decorators and
finishers
• Optical glass
makers
• Glass and
ceramics makers,
decorators and
finishers not
elsewhere
classified

£25,400
(£13.03
per
hour)

Not
applicable

5442 Furniture
makers and
other craft
woodworkers

5442

• Cabinet makers
(excludes metal)
• Furniture makers
and fitters
• Furniture
restorers
• Furniture
sprayers and
finishers
• Picture framers
• Shed makers
• Furniture makers
and other craft
woodworkers not
elsewhere
classified

£25,000
(£12.82
per
hour)

Not
applicable

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 77 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

5443 Florists

5443

• Florists

£25,000
(£12.82
per
hour)

Not
applicable

5449 Other
skilled trades
not elsewhere
classified

5449

• Basket makers
(excludes wire
goods mfr)
• Candle makers
• Goldsmiths,
silversmiths,
jewellers and
precious stone
workers
• Hairpiece and
wig makers
• Metal engravers
• Craft model
makers
• Musical
instrument
repairers, makers
and tuners
• Sign makers and
writers
• Toy makers and
repairers
• Other skilled
trades not
elsewhere
classified

£25,800
(£13.23
per
hour)

Not
applicable

6111 Early
education and
childcare
assistants

6121, 6122,
6123

• Early education
and childcare
assistants

£25,000
(£12.82
per
hour)

Not
applicable

6114
Childminders

6122

• Childminders

£25,000
(£12.82
per
hour)

Not
applicable

6117
Playworkers

3550, 6123

• Playworkers

£25,000
(£12.82
per
hour)

Not
applicable

6129 Animal
care services
occupations not
elsewhere
classified

6139

• Animal boarding
assistants
• Animal breeders
• Animal groomers
• Animal trainers
(excludes
performing
animals)
• Animal walkers
• Animal welfare
workers
• Stable workers
• Veterinary
assistants
• Zookeepers
• Animal care
services
occupations not
elsewhere
classified

£25,000
(£12.82
per
hour)

Not
applicable

6134

6144

• Foster carers

£25,000

Not

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 78 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

Houseparents
and residential
wardens

6135 Care
workers and
home carers –
Jobs with a
working
location in
England are
only eligible in
this SOC 2020
occupation
code where the
sponsor holds
registration with
the Care
Quality
Commission
and is currently
carrying on a
regulated
activity.

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

• Residential
childcare
practitioners
• School matrons
and houseparents
• Residential
housing wardens
• Houseparents
and residential
wardens not
elsewhere
classified

(£12.82
per
hour)

applicable

2442, 3231,
3239, 6141,
6144, 6145

• Community
support workers
• Home care
workers
• Residential care
workers
• Care workers
and home carers
not elsewhere
classified

£25,000
(£12.82
per
hour)

Not
applicable

6144, 6146

• Senior
community support
workers
• Senior home
care workers
• Senior residential
care workers
• Senior care
workers not

£25,000
(£12.82
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Eligibility for
Skilled Worker
applicants to be
sponsored in
this SOC 2020
occupation
code is
restricted, as
set out in SW
6.1B of
Appendix
Skilled Worker.
Note: private
households or
individuals
(other than sole
traders
sponsoring
someone to
work for their
business)
cannot sponsor
Skilled Worker
applicants.
6136 Senior
care workers –
Jobs with a
working
location in
England are
only eligible in
this SOC 2020
occupation

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 79 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

code where the
sponsor holds
registration with
the Care
Quality
Commission
and is currently
carrying on a
regulated
activity.

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

elsewhere
classified

Eligibility for
Skilled Worker
applicants to be
sponsored in
this SOC 2020
occupation
code is
restricted, as
set out in SW
6.1B of
Appendix
Skilled Worker.
6213 Air travel
assistants

6214

• Flight attendants
• Passenger
services assistants
• Air travel
assistants not
elsewhere
classified

£25,000
(£12.82
per
hour)

Not
applicable

6214 Rail travel
assistants

6215

• Railway station
assistants
• Revenue
protection officers
• Train conductors
and guards
• Rail travel
assistants not
elsewhere
classified

£35,400
(£18.15
per
hour)

Not
applicable

6311 Police
community
support officers

• Police community
support officers

£31,600
(£16.21
per
hour)

Not
applicable

7124 Market
and street
traders and
assistants

• Market and street
traders and
assistants

£25,000
(£12.82
per
hour)

Not
applicable

7131
Shopkeepers
and owners retail and
wholesale

1223, 1253,
1254

• Antique dealers
• Art dealers
• Car traders
• Newsagents
• Retail jewellers
• Wholesalers
• Wine merchants
• Shopkeepers and
owners - retail and
wholesale not
elsewhere
classified

£27,200
(£13.95
per
hour)

Not
applicable

7132 Sales
supervisors retail and

7130

• Sales
supervisors - retail
and wholesale

£25,000
(£12.82
per

Not
applicable

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 80 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

wholesale

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

hour)

7214 Market
research
interviewers

7215

• Field and
telephone
interviewers
• Mystery
shoppers
• Political
canvassers
• Traffic
enumerators

£25,000
(£12.82
per
hour)

Not
applicable

7220 Customer
service
supervisors

7220

• Customer service
supervisors

£28,900
(£14.82
per
hour)

Not
applicable

• Chemical and
related process
operatives

£26,700
(£13.69
per
hour)

Not
applicable

8113 Chemical
and related
process
operatives
8133 Energy
plant operatives

8124

• Boiler operatives
• Compressor
operatives
• Nuclear
decommissioning
operatives
• Energy plant
operatives not
elsewhere
classified

£30,100
(£15.44
per
hour)

Not
applicable

8134 Water
and sewerage
plant operatives

8126

• Water and
sewerage
distribution
operatives
• Water treatment
operatives
• Water and
sewerage plant
operatives not
elsewhere
classified

£31,300
(£16.05
per
hour)

Not
applicable

• Routine
inspectors and
testers

£26,600
(£13.64
per
hour)

Not
applicable

8143 Routine
inspectors and
testers
8215 Driving
instructors

8215

• Cycling
instructors
• Forklift
instructors
• Heavy and large
vehicle driving
instructors
• Motorcycle
instructors
• Passenger
carrying vehicle
(PCV) and car
driving instructors
• Driving
instructors not
elsewhere
classified

£33,300
(£17.08
per
hour)

Not
applicable

8232 Marine

8232

• Marine and

£26,300

Not

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 81 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

and waterways
transport
operatives
9119 Fishing
and other
elementary
agriculture
occupations not
elsewhere
classified ONLY the listed
job titles are
eligible in this
SOC 2020
occupation
code and ONLY
where the job
requires the
worker to have
at least 3 years’
full-time
experience in
using their
skills. This
experience
must not have
been gained
through
working
illegally.

9119

9249
Elementary
sales
occupations not
elsewhere
classified

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

waterways
transport
operatives

(£13.49
per
hour)

applicable

• Vent chick sexer
• Deckhand on
large fishing vessel
(9 metres and
above)

£25,000
(£12.82
per
hour)

Not
applicable

• Retail order
pickers
• Trolley collectors
• Elementary sales
occupations not
elsewhere
classified

£27,500
(£14.10
per
hour)

Not
applicable

Table 2a: Additional eligible SOC 2020 occupation
codes and related going rates for Skilled Worker
applicants granted permission under the rules in place
before 4 April 2024
These SOC 2020 occupation codes were previously considered to be skilled
to Regulated Qualifications Framework (RQF) level 3-5, but have been
reassessed as being below RQF level 3. This table relates to points options
F-J set out in Appendix Skilled Worker.
Sponsors may ONLYsponsor Skilled Worker applicants in these SOC2020
occupation codes if the date of application is before 4 April 2030, the
applicant was granted permission as a Skilled Worker under the rules in
place before 4 April 2024, has had continuous permission as a Skilled
Worker since then, and is applying to work for the same sponsor as in their
most recent permission.
These SOC 2020 occupation codes are not eligible for the Global Business
Mobility or Scale-up routes.
Other than skill level, the notes accompanying Table 2 also apply to this
table.
SOC 2020
occupation
code

Equivalent
SOC 2010
occupation

Examples of
related job
titles (non-

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Going
rate
(SW –

70% of
going
rate

Eligible
for
PhD
Page 82 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

code(s)

exclusive)

option
F)

(SW –
option
J)

points
(SW)?

3214
Complementary
health
associate
professionals

3219

• Alexander
technique
teachers
•
Aromatherapists
• Homeopaths
(excludes
medically
qualified)
• Hospital play
specialists
•
Hypnotherapists
• Massage
therapists
• Reflexologists
• Reiki healers
•
Complementary
health associate
professionals
not elsewhere
classified

£31,300
(£16.05
per
hour)

£25,000
(£12.82
per
hour)

No

6116 Nannies
and au pairs

6122

• Au pairs
• Nannies

£31,300
(£16.05
per
hour)

£25,000
(£12.82
per
hour)

No

6232
Caretakers

1251, 6144

• Caretakers

£31,300
(£16.05
per
hour)

£25,000
(£12.82
per
hour)

No

6250 Bed and
breakfast and
guest house
owners and
proprietors

1221

• Bed and
breakfast and
guest house
owners and
proprietors

£31,300
(£16.05
per
hour)

£25,000
(£12.82
per
hour)

No

7115 Vehicle
and parts
salespersons
and advisers

3542

• Vehicle parts
advisers
• Vehicle sales
executives

£31,300
(£16.05
per
hour)

£25,000
(£12.82
per
hour)

No

7125 Visual
merchandisers
and related
occupations

7125

• Fashion
stylists
• Visual
merchandisers
and window
dressers
• Visual
merchandisers
and related
occupations not
elsewhere
classified

£31,300
(£16.05
per
hour)

£25,000
(£12.82
per
hour)

No

7129 Sales
related
occupations not
elsewhere
classified

3542

• Demonstrators
and product
promoters
• Hire desk
controllers
• Sales energy
consultants

£31,300
(£16.05
per
hour)

£25,000
(£12.82
per
hour)

No

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 83 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

• Sales related
occupations not
elsewhere
classified
8115 Metal
making and
treating
process
operatives

5234, 5449

• Galvanisers
and platers
• Metal sprayers
and powder
coaters
• Metal making
and treating
process
operatives not
elsewhere
classified

£31,300
(£16.05
per
hour)

£25,000
(£12.82
per
hour)

No

9252
Warehouse
operatives

4134

• Warehouse
operatives

£31,300
(£16.05
per
hour)

£25,000
(£12.82
per
hour)

No

Table 2b: Additional eligible SOC 2020 occupation
codes and related going rates for Global Business
Mobility applicants granted permission under the rules
in place before 4 April 2024
These SOC 2020 occupation codes were previously considered to be skilled
to Regulated Qualifications Framework (RQF) level 6 or above, but have
been reassessed as being below RQF level 6.
Sponsors may ONLYsponsor Global Business Mobility applicants in these
SOC 2020 occupation codes if the date of application is before 4 April 2030,
the applicant was granted permission as a lead applicant on a Global
Business Mobility route under the Rules in place before 4 April 2024, and
they have had continuous permission as a lead applicant on the Global
Business Mobility route since then.
Other than skill level, the notes accompanying Table 2 also apply to this
table, except that equivalent SOC 2010 occupation codes are only included
where they were previously eligible for the Global Business Mobility routes.
SOC 2020
occupation
code

Equivalent
SOC 2010
occupation
code(s)

Examples of
related job titles
(non-exclusive)

Going
rate
(GBM –
minimum
rate)

70% of
going
rate
(GTR –
minimum
rate)

1232
Residential, day
and domiciliary
care managers
and proprietors

1221, 1184

• Day care
managers
• Home care
managers
• Residential care
managers and
proprietors
• Residential, day
and domiciliary
care managers
and proprietors
not elsewhere
classified

£32,000
(£16.41
per hour)

£25,000
(£12.82
per hour)

1233 Early
education and

2319

• Early education
and childcare

£31,300
(£16.05

£25,000
(£12.82

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 84 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

childcare
services
proprietors

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

services
proprietors

per hour)

per hour)

1243 Managers
in logistics

1133, 1161

• Managers in
logistics

£37,300
(£19.13
per hour)

£26,100
(£13.38
per hour)

1259 Managers
and proprietors
in other services
not elsewhere
classified

1139

• Cleaning and
hygiene services
managers and
proprietors
• Educational
establishment
managers and
proprietors
• Funeral
services and
crematorium
managers and
proprietors
• Library
managers
• Recruitment
agency
managers and
proprietors
• Security
services
managers and
proprietors
• Managers and
proprietors in
other services
not elsewhere
classified

£33,100
(£16.97
per hour)

£25,000
(£12.82
per hour)

2324 Early
education and
childcare
services
managers

2319

• Early education
and childcare
services
managers

£31,300
(£16.05
per hour)

£25,000
(£12.82
per hour)

3119 Science,
engineering and
production
technicians not
elsewhere
classified

3411

• School
technicians
• Textile
consultants
• Science,
engineering and
production
technicians not
elsewhere
classified

£31,300
(£16.05
per hour)

£25,000
(£12.82
per hour)

3120 CAD,
drawing and
architectural
technicians

2435

• Architectural
technicians
• BIM and CAD
technicians
• Cartographers
• CAD, drawing
and architectural
technicians not
elsewhere
classified

£31,300
(£16.05
per hour)

£25,000
(£12.82
per hour)

3133 Database
administrators
and web content
technicians

2137

• Database
administrators
• Web content
technicians

£31,300
(£16.05
per hour)

£25,000
(£12.82
per hour)

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 85 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

• Database
administrators
and web content
technicians not
elsewhere
classified
3229 Welfare
and housing
associate
professionals
not elsewhere
classified

2129, 2318,
2412

• Advocates
(excludes
solicitor
advocates)
• Celebrants
• Charity workers
• Day care
officers
• Health advisers
• Homelessness
and housing
advice support
workers
• Mental health
project workers
• Probation
service workers
• Student support
workers
• Victim support
workers
• Welfare and
housing
associate
professionals not
elsewhere
classified

£31,300
(£16.05
per hour)

£25,000
(£12.82
per hour)

3411 Artists

3411

• Art technicians
(excludes
education)
• Drawing and
painting artists
• Hand drawn
animators
• Illustrators
(excludes
medical and
scientific)
• Medical and
scientific
illustrators
• Picture
restorers
• Sculptors
• Tattoo and
henna artists
• Artists not
elsewhere
classified

£31,300
(£16.05
per hour)

£25,000
(£12.82
per hour)

3412 Authors,
writers and
translators

3412

• Authors
• Bloggers
• Copywriters
• Literary editors
• Poets
• Script writers
• Technical
writers (excludes
computing)
• Translators and
interpreters

£31,300
(£16.05
per hour)

£25,000
(£12.82
per hour)

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 86 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

• Authors, writers
and translators
not elsewhere
classified
3413 Actors,
entertainers and
presenters

3413, 3415,
3416

• Actors
• Broadcasters,
podcasters and
presenters
• Children’s
entertainers
• Comedians
• Disc jockeys
• Magicians
• Models
• Singers
• Social media
influencers
• Actors,
entertainers and
presenters not
elsewhere
classified

£31,300
(£16.05
per hour)

£25,000
(£12.82
per hour)

3414 Dancers
and
choreographers

3414

•
Choreographers
• Dance teachers
(excludes
educational
establishments)
• Dancers

£31,300
(£16.05
per hour)

£25,000
(£12.82
per hour)

3421 Interior
designers

2431, 3422

• Interior
designers

£31,300
(£16.05
per hour)

£25,000
(£12.82
per hour)

3422 Clothing,
fashion and
accessories
designers

3422

• Clothing and
fashion
consultants
• Clothing and
fashion
designers
• Footwear
designers
• Jewellery
designers
• Textile
designers
• Clothing,
fashion and
accessories
designers not
elsewhere
classified

£31,300
(£16.05
per hour)

£25,000
(£12.82
per hour)

3429 Design
occupations not
elsewhere
classified

2431, 3422

• Industrial and
product
designers
• Packaging
designers
• Performance
make-up artists
• Set designers
• Visual
merchandising
managers and
designers
• Design
occupations not

£31,300
(£16.05
per hour)

£25,000
(£12.82
per hour)

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 87 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

elsewhere
classified
3543 Project
support officers

2136, 3534

• Project support
officers

£31,300
(£16.05
per hour)

£25,000
(£12.82
per hour)

Table 3: Eligible health and education SOC 2020
occupation codes where going rates are based on
national pay scales
These SOC 2020 occupation codes are considered to be skilled to
Regulated Qualifications Framework (RQF) level 6 or above, and are
eligible for the Skilled Worker, Global Business Mobility and Scale-up
routes, other than roles below Agenda for Change band 5, which are
ineligible for the Global Business Mobility and Scale-up routes, and are only
eligible for the Skilled Worker route if the conditions specified in Table 4 are
met.
SOC 2020 occupation codes in Table 3 are eligible for points option K set
out in Appendix Skilled Worker. They are also eligible for the Global
Business Mobility and Scale-up routes.
Equivalent SOC 2010 occupation codes are included where they were
previously eligible for the Skilled Worker route, for ease of matching to the
relevant SOC 2020 occupation codes for applicants being sponsored to
continue working in the same occupation.
SOC 2020
occupation
code

Equivalent
SOC 2010
occupation
code(s)

Examples of
related job titles
(non-exclusive)

Going rate
(annual)

National pay
scale source

2211 Generalist
medical
practitioners
(England)

2211

• Doctor
• General
practitioner
• House officer
(hospital service)
• Medical
practitioner
• Physician

Medical
professionals NHS doctors
in post
graduate
training:
• Foundation
year 1 (F1)
and
equivalent:
£36,616
• Foundation
year 2 (F2)
and
equivalent:
£42,008
• Specialty
registrar (StR)
at ST/CT1-2
and
equivalent:
£49,909
• Specialty
registrar (StR)
at CT3/ST3-5:
£61,825

Pay and
Conditions
Circular (M&D)
5/2024 R

Other medical
professionals:
• Specialty
doctor and
equivalent:
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 88 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

£59,175
• Salaried
General
practitioner
(GP) and
equivalent:
£73,113
• Specialist
doctor and
equivalent:
£96,990
• Consultant
and
equivalent:
£105,504
These going
rates are per
year and
based on a
40-hour
working week.
They must be
pro-rated for
other working
patterns,
based on the
weekly
working hours
stated by the
applicant’s
sponsor.
2211 Generalist
medical
practitioners
(Scotland)

2211

• Doctor
• General
practitioner
• House officer
(hospital service)
• Medical
practitioner
• Physician

Medical
professionals NHS doctors
in post
graduate
training:
• Foundation
year 1 (F1)
and
equivalent:
£34,500
• Foundation
year 2 (F2)
and
equivalent:
£42,794
• Specialty
registrar (StR):
£45,504

NHS Circular:
PCS(DD)2024/01

Other medical
professionals:
• Specialty
doctor and
equivalent:
£47,905
• Salaried
General
practitioner
(GP) and
equivalent:
£74,192
• Consultant
and
equivalent:
£107,144
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 89 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

These going
rates are per
year and
based on a
40-hour
working week.
They must be
pro-rated for
other working
patterns,
based on the
weekly
working hours
stated by the
applicant’s
sponsor.
2211 Generalist
medical
practitioners
(Wales)

2211

• Doctor
• General
practitioner
• House officer
(hospital service)
• Medical
practitioner
• Physician

Medical
professionals NHS doctors
in post
graduate
training:
• Foundation
year 1 (F1)
and
equivalent:
£33,307
• Foundation
year 2 (F2)
and
equivalent:
£41,073
• Specialty
registrar (StR)
at ST/CT1-2
and
equivalent:
£43,821
• Specialty
registrar (StR)
at CT/ST3 and
above £43,821

Welsh
Government Pay
Circular M&D(W)
07/2024 Pay
Circular v4

Other medical
professionals:
• Specialty
doctor and
equivalent:
£59,727
• Salaried
General
practitioner
(GP) and
equivalent:
£76,079
• Consultant
and
equivalent:
£106,000
(37.5 hour
week)
These going
rates are per
year and
based on a
40-hour
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 90 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

working week
unless noted.
They must be
pro-rated for
other working
patterns,
based on the
weekly
working hours
stated by the
applicant’s
sponsor.
2211 Generalist
medical
practitioners
(Northern
Ireland)

2211

• Doctor
• General
practitioner
• House officer
(hospital service)
• Medical
practitioner
• Physician

Medical
professionals
on the HSC
Doctors and
Dentists in
Training
contract:
• Foundation
year 1 (F1)
and
equivalent:
£29,566
• Foundation
year 2 (F2)
and
equivalent:
£36,371
• Specialty
registrar (StR)
at ST/CT1-2
and
equivalent:
£38,780
• Specialty
registrar (StR)
at CT/ST3 and
above £44,283

Workforce policy
guidance - HSC
(TC8) 01/2024 Pay and
Conditions of
Service for
Hospital, Medical
and Dental Staff Pay Award
2023/24

Other medical
professionals:
• Specialty
doctor (new
2021 contract)
and
equivalent:
£52,530
• Salaried
General
practitioner
(GP) and
equivalent:
£69,974
• Specialist
(new 2021
contract) and
equivalent):
£83,945
• Consultant
and
equivalent:
£94,127
These going
rates are per
year and
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 91 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

based on a
40-hour
working week.
They must be
pro-rated for
other working
patterns,
based on the
weekly
working hours
stated by the
applicant’s
sponsor.
2212 Specialist
medical
practitioners

2111, 3111

• Anaesthetist
• Consultant
(hospital service)
• Homeopath
(medically
qualified)
• Medical
acupuncturist
• Paediatrician
• Psychiatrist
• Radiologist
• Surgeon

As SOC 2020
occupation
code 2211

As SOC 2020
occupation code
2211

2221
Physiotherapists

2221

• Electro-therapist
• Physiotherapist
• Physiotherapy
practitioner

See relevant
pay band in
Table 4

NHS Agenda for
Change:
England,
Scotland, Wales,
Northern Ireland

2222
Occupational
therapists

2222

• Community
occupational
therapist
• Occupational
therapist
• Paediatric
occupational
therapist

See relevant
pay band in
Table 4

NHS Agenda for
Change:
England,
Scotland, Wales,
Northern Ireland

2223 Speech
and language
therapists

2223

• Communication
therapist
• Language
therapist
• Speech and
language
therapist
• Speech
therapist

See relevant
pay band in
Table 4

NHS Agenda for
Change:
England,
Scotland, Wales,
Northern Ireland

2224
Psychotherapists
and cognitive
behaviour
therapists

2229, 3219,
3235

• Cognitive
behavioural
therapist
• Psycho-analyst
• Psychological
counsellor
• Psychotherapist

See relevant
pay band in
Table 4

NHS Agenda for
Change:
England,
Scotland, Wales,
Northern Ireland

2225 Clinical
psychologists

2212

• Clinical
psychologist
• Consultant
clinical
psychologist

See relevant
pay band in
Table 4

NHS Agenda for
Change:
England,
Scotland, Wales,
Northern Ireland

2226 Other
psychologists

2212

• Educational
psychologist
• Forensic

See relevant
pay band in
Table 4 –

NHS Agenda for
Change:
England,

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 92 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

psychologist
• Occupational
psychologist
• Psychologist
• Psychometrist

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

except
Educational
psychologist in
Scottish
Education,
rates below:

Scotland, Wales,
Northern Ireland

• Educational
Psychologist
£56,763
• Senior
Educational
Psychologist,
Depute
Principal
Educational
Psychologist
and Principal
Educational
Psychologist
£76,701
2229 Therapy
professionals not
elsewhere
classified

2212, 2229,
3219

• Acupuncturist
• Art therapist
• Chiropractor
• Dance
movement
therapist
• Family therapist
• Genetic
counsellor
• Nutritionist
• Osteopath
• Sports massage
therapist
• Sports therapist

See relevant
pay band in
Table 4

NHS Agenda for
Change:
England,
Scotland, Wales,
Northern Ireland

2231 Midwifery
nurses

2232

• Delivery suite
manager
• Midwife
• Midwifery
manager

See relevant
pay band in
Table 4

NHS Agenda for
Change:
England,
Scotland, Wales,
Northern Ireland

2232 Registered
community
nurses

2231

• Community care
nurse
• District nurse
• Health visitor
• Practice nurse

See relevant
pay band in
Table 4

NHS Agenda for
Change:
England,
Scotland, Wales,
Northern Ireland

2233 Registered
specialist nurses

2231

• Advanced
primary care
nurse
• Intensive care
nurse
• Clinical nurse
specialist
• Theatre
manager (hospital
service)

See relevant
pay band in
Table 4

NHS Agenda for
Change:
England,
Scotland, Wales,
Northern Ireland

2234 Registered
nurse
practitioners

2231

• Health care
practitioner
• Mental health
practitioner
• Practitioner
(nursing)

See relevant
pay band in
Table 4

NHS Agenda for
Change:
England,
Scotland, Wales,
Northern Ireland

2235 Registered
mental health

2231

• Community
mental health

See relevant
pay band in

NHS Agenda for
Change:

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 93 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

nurses

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

nurse
• Psychiatric
nurse

Table 4

England,
Scotland, Wales,
Northern Ireland

2236 Registered
children’s nurses

2231

• Community
children’s nurse
• Neonatal nurse
• Paediatric nurse
• School nurse

See relevant
pay band in
Table 4

NHS Agenda for
Change:
England,
Scotland, Wales,
Northern Ireland

2237 Other
registered
nursing
professionals

2231, 6144

• Clinical lead
nurse
• Matron
(care/residential
home)
• Nurse
• Nurse educator
• Occupational
health nurse
• Staff nurse
• Team leader
(nursing)
• Ward manager

See relevant
pay band in
Table 4

NHS Agenda for
Change:
England,
Scotland, Wales,
Northern Ireland

2251
Pharmacists

2213

• Chemist
(pharmaceutical)
• Dispensary
manager
• Pharmaceutical
chemist
• Pharmacist
•Pharmacy
manager

See relevant
pay band in
Table 4

NHS Agenda for
Change:
England,
Scotland, Wales,
Northern Ireland

2252
Optometrists

2214

• Doctor of
optometry
• Ophthalmic
optician
• Optician

See relevant
pay band in
Table 4

NHS Agenda for
Change:
England,
Scotland, Wales,
Northern Ireland

2253 Dental
practitioners
(England)

2215

• Dental surgeon
• Dentist
• Orthodontist
• Periodontist

• Dental
foundation
training and
equivalent:
£38,472 (35hour week)
• Dental core
training
(hospital
dental
services) and
equivalent:
£49,909 (40hour week)
• Dental
specialty
training and
equivalent:
£61,825 (40hour week)
• Band A posts
(for example,
Community
practitioner)
and
equivalent:
£50,512 (37.5hour week)

Pay and
Conditions
Circular (M&D)
5/2024 R

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 94 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

• Band B posts
(for example,
Senior dental
officer) and
equivalent:
£78,573 (37.5hour week)
• Band C
posts (for
example,
Specialist /
managerial
posts) and
equivalent:
£94,007 (37.5hour week)
• Consultant
and
equivalent:
£105,504 (40hour week)
These going
rates are per
year and
based on the
weekly
working hours
stated above.
They must be
pro-rated for
other working
patterns,
based on the
weekly
working hours
stated by the
applicant’s
sponsor.
2253 Dental
practitioners
(Scotland)

2215

• Dental surgeon
• Dentist
• Orthodontist
• Periodontist

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

• Dental
foundation
training
(Hospital
dental
services)
known as
Vocational
Training in
Scotland:
£39,603
(based on a
35-hour week)
• Dental core
training and
equivalent:
£50,538
• Band A posts
(for example,
Community
practitioner)
and
equivalent:
£52,035
• Band B posts
(for example,
Senior dental
officer) and
equivalent:

NHS Circular:
PCS(DD)2024/01

Page 95 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

£80,942
• Band C
posts (for
example,
Specialist /
managerial
posts) and
equivalent:
£96,841
These going
rates are per
year and
(unless
otherwise
stated) based
on a 40-hour
working week.
They must be
pro-rated for
other working
patterns,
based on the
weekly
working hours
stated by the
applicant’s
sponsor.
2253 Dental
practitioners
(Wales)

2215

• Dental surgeon
• Dentist
• Orthodontist
• Periodontist

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

• Dental
foundation
training
(Hospital
dental
services) and
equivalent:
£38,292
• Dental core
training and
equivalent:
£41,269
• Band A posts
(for example,
Community
practitioner)
and
equivalent:
£50,789
• Band B posts
(for example,
Senior dental
officer) and
equivalent:
£79,003
• Band C
posts (for
example,
Specialist /
managerial
posts) and
equivalent:
£94,525
• Consultant
and
equivalent:
£106,000
(37.5 hour
week)

Welsh
Government Pay
Circular M&D(W)
07/2024 Pay
Circular v4

Page 96 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

These going
rates are per
year and
based on a 40
hour working
week unless
noted. They
must be prorated for other
working
patterns,
based on the
weekly
working hours
stated by the
applicant’s
sponsor.
2253 Dental
practitioners
(Northern
Ireland)

2215

• Dental surgeon
• Dentist
• Orthodontist
• Periodontist

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

• Dental
foundation
year two
training
(Hospital
dental
services) and
equivalent:
£36,371
• Dental
specialty
training and
equivalent:
£38,780 (40hour week)
• Community
Dental Officer
and
equivalent:
£47,655 (37.5hour week)
• Senior
community
dental officer)
and
equivalent:
£74,129 (37.5hour week)
• Specialist
Community
Dentist:
£88,686 (37.5hour week)
• Assistant
Community
Clinical
Director:
£88,686 (37.5hour week)
• Community
Clinical
Director:
£88,686 (37.5hour week)
•Administrative
dentists:
Dental Officer:
£43,738 (37hour week)
• Senior

Workforce policy
guidance - HSC
(TC8) 01/2024 Pay and
Conditions of
Service for
Hospital, Medical
and Dental Staff Pay Award
2023/24

Page 97 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

Dental Officer:
£62,500 (37hour week),
• Assistant
clinical
Director:
£83,051 (37hour week)
• Clinical
Director:
£83,051 (37hour week)
• Consultant
Northern
Ireland:
£94,127 (40hour week)
These going
rates are per
year and
based on the
weekly
working hours
stated above.
They must be
pro-rated for
other working
patterns,
based on the
weekly
working hours
stated by the
applicant’s
sponsor.
2254 Medical
radiographers

2217

• Medical
photographer
• Nuclear
medicine
practitioner
• Radiographer
• Sonographer
• Therapeutic
radiographer
• Vascular
technologist

See relevant
pay band in
Table 4

NHS Agenda for
Change:
England,
Scotland, Wales,
Northern Ireland

2255
Paramedics

3213

• Ambulance
paramedic
• Emergency care
practitioner
• Paramedic
•Paramedic-ECP

See relevant
pay band in
Table 4

NHS Agenda for
Change:
England,
Scotland, Wales,
Northern Ireland

2256 Podiatrists

2218

• Chiropodist
• Foot health
practitioner
(qualified)
• Podiatrist

See relevant
pay band in
Table 4

NHS Agenda for
Change:
England,
Scotland, Wales,
Northern Ireland

2259 Other
health
professionals not
elsewhere
classified

2112, 2219,
3218, 3219

• Audiologist
• Clinical
physiologist
• Dieticiannutritionist
• Family planner
• Occupational
health adviser

See relevant
pay band in
Table 4

NHS Agenda for
Change:
England,
Scotland, Wales,
Northern Ireland

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 98 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

• Operating
theatre
practitioner
• Physiologist
2312 Further
education
teaching
professionals
(England)

2312

• FE College
lecturer
• Lecturer (further
education)
• Teacher (further
education)
• Tutor (further
education)

• Unqualified
lecturer:
£22,387
• Qualified
lecturer:
£27,786
• Advanced
teaching and
training:
£41,905
• Leadership &
management:
£41,905

General Further
Education
Colleges 2023
national pay
scales
Sixth Form
Colleges 2023
national pay
scales

These going
rates are per
year and
based on the
definition of a
full-time
teaching
professional
used when
determining
these pay
scales. They
must be prorated for other
working
patterns,
based on the
weekly
working hours
stated by the
applicant’s
sponsor.
2312 Further
education
teaching
professionals
(Scotland)

2312

• FE College
lecturer
• Lecturer (further
education)
• Teacher (further
education)
• Tutor (further
education)

• Lecturer and
equivalent:
£27,786
• Senior
lecturer and
equivalent:
£41,905

No national pay
scales published
– minimum rates
taken as the
lowest of the
other three
nations

These going
rates are per
year and
based on the
definition of a
full-time
teaching
professional
used when
determining
these pay
scales. They
must be prorated for other
working
patterns,
based on the
weekly
working hours
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 99 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

stated by the
applicant’s
sponsor.
2312 Further
education
teaching
professionals
(Wales)

2312

• FE College
lecturer
• Lecturer (further
education)
• Teacher (further
education)
• Tutor (further
education)

• Instructor /
demonstrator
and associate
lecturer:
£24,048.75
• Main grade
lecturer:
£30,619.64
• Upper pay
spine:
£44,010.49
•
Management:
£47,696.57

Wales FE pay
scales

These going
rates are per
year and
based on the
definition of a
full-time
teaching
professional
used when
determining
these pay
scales. They
must be prorated for other
working
patterns,
based on the
weekly
working hours
stated by the
applicant’s
sponsor.
2312 Further
education
teaching
professionals
(Northern
Ireland)

2312

• FE College
lecturer
• Lecturer (further
education)
• Teacher (further
education)
• Tutor (further
education)

• Lecturer:
£30,000
• Principal
lecturer:
£52,361
• Heads of
Departments:
£55,339

Northern Ireland
FE pay scales
pay offer from
College
Employers’
Forum

These going
rates are per
year and
based on the
definition of a
full-time
teaching
professional
used when
determining
these pay
scales. They
must be prorated for other
working
patterns,
based on the
weekly
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 100 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

working hours
stated by the
applicant’s
sponsor.
2313 Secondary
education
teaching
professionals

2314

• Curriculum
leader (secondary
school)
• Deputy head
teacher
(secondary
school)
• Head of year
(secondary
school)
• Secondary
school teacher
• Sixth form
teacher
• Teacher
(secondary
school)

See relevant
pay band in
Table 5

Teachers’
national pay
scales: England,
Northern Ireland,
Scotland, Wales

2314 Primary
education
teaching
professionals

2315

• Deputy head
teacher (primary
school)
• Infant teacher
• Junior school
teacher
• Primary school
teacher

See relevant
pay band in
Table 5

Teachers’
national pay
scales: England,
Northern Ireland,
Scotland, Wales

2315 Nursery
education
teaching
professionals

2315

• Kindergarten
teacher
(professional)
• Nursery school
teacher
• Pre-school
teacher

See relevant
pay band in
Table 5

Teachers’
national pay
scales: England,
Northern Ireland,
Scotland, Wales

2316 Special
and additional
needs education
teaching
professionals

2316

• Behaviour
support teacher
• Deputy head
teacher
(special/additional
needs school)
• Learning
support teacher
• Special
educational
needs coordinator
• Special needs
teacher

See relevant
pay band in
Table 5

Teachers’
national pay
scales: England,
Northern Ireland,
Scotland, Wales

2321 Head
teachers and
principals

2317

• Head master
(secondary
school)
• Head teacher
(primary school)
• Principal (further
education)
• Rector
(university)

See relevant
pay band in
Table 5

Teachers’
national pay
scales: England,
Northern Ireland,
Scotland, Wales

2461 Social
workers

2442

• Independent
review officer
(social worker)
• Mental health
social worker

See relevant
pay band in
Table 4

NHS Agenda for
Change:
England,
Scotland, Wales,
Northern Ireland

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 101 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

• Senior
practitioner (local
government:
social services)
• Social worker
• Team leader
(local
government:
social services)

Table 3a: Additional health and education SOC 2020
occupation codes where going rates are based on
national pay scales, for Skilled Worker applicants
granted permission under the rules in place before 22
July 2025
These SOC 2020 occupation codes are considered to be skilled to
Regulated Qualifications Framework (RQF) level 3-5.
Except for “6131 Nursing auxiliaries and assistants”, sponsors may ONLY
sponsor Skilled Worker applicants in these SOC2020 occupation codes if
the applicant was granted permission as a Skilled Worker under the rules in
place before 22 July 2025, and they have had continuous permission as a
Skilled Worker since then. In these circumstances, they are eligible under
points option K in Appendix Skilled Worker.
These SOC 2020 occupation codes are not eligible for the Global Business
Mobility or Scale-up routes.
Equivalent SOC 2010 occupation codes are included where they were
previously eligible for the Skilled Worker route, for ease of matching to the
relevant SOC 2020 occupation codes for applicants being sponsored to
continue working in the same occupation.
SOC 2020
occupation code

Equivalent
SOC 2010
occupation
code(s)

Examples of
related job
titles (nonexclusive)

Going
rate
(annual)

National
pay
scale
source

3213 Medical and
dental technicians

3218, 5224

•
Cardiographer
• Dental
hygienist
• Dental
technician
• Medical
technical officer
• Ocularist
• Orthopaedic
technician
• Radiography
assistant
practitioner

See
relevant
pay band
in Table 4

NHS
Agenda
for
Change:
England),
Scotland,
Wales,
Northern
Ireland

3219 Health
associate
professionals not
elsewhere
classified

3218, 3219

• Antenatal
teacher
• Diet adviser
• Health trainer
• Therapist

See
relevant
pay band
in Table 4

NHS
Agenda
for
Change:
England),
Scotland,
Wales,
Northern
Ireland

3231 Higher level
teaching

6125, 6126

• Advanced
teaching

General
Assistants

NJC pay
scales

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 102 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

assistants

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

assistant
• HLTA
• Learning
support
practitioner
• Teaching
assistant
(qualified)

/
Classroom
Assistants:
£23,656
(FTE
£12.26 per
hour)
Classroom
Assistant
SEN:
£25,147
p.a. (FTE
£13.03 per
hour)

2024
No
available
data for
Scotland
so
matching
the value
of other
nations

6112 Teaching
assistants

3111, 6125

• Classroom
assistant
• School
assistant
• Teaching
assistant

£23,656
(FTE
£12.26 per
hour)

NJC pay
scales
2024
No
available
data for
Scotland
so
matching
the value
of other
nations

6113 Educational
support
assistants

6126

• Education
support
assistant
• Learning
support
assistant
• Non-teaching
assistant
(schools)
• Special needs
assistant
• Support
assistant
(educational
establishments)

£23,656
(FTE
£12.26 per
hour)

NJC pay
scales
2024
No
available
data for
Scotland
so
matching
the value
of other
nations

6131 Nursing
auxiliaries and
assistants

5431, 6141

• Auxiliary
nurse
• Health care
assistant
(hospital
service)
• Health care
support worker
• Nursing
assistant
• Nursing
auxiliary

See
relevant
pay band
in Table 4

NHS
Agenda
for
Change:
England,
Scotland,
Wales,
Northern
Ireland

• Ambulance
care assistant
• Ambulance
driver
• Ambulance
service
preparation

See
relevant
pay band
in Table 4

NHS
Agenda
for
Change:
England,
Scotland,
Wales,

Note: For Skilled
Worker purposes,
SOC 2020
occupation code
6131 only applies
to roles in
environments
where registered
nurse or other
registered
healthcare
professional roles
also exist.
6132 Ambulance
staff (excluding
paramedics)

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 103 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

operative
• Ambulance
technician
• Emergency
medical
technician
6133 Dental
nurses

6143

• Dental
assistant
• Dental nurse
• Dental nursereceptionist
• Dental
surgery
assistant

Northern
Ireland

See
relevant
pay band
in Table 4

NHS
Agenda
for
Change:
England,
Scotland,
Wales,
Northern
Ireland

Table 4: Going rates for listed healthcare SOC 2020
occupation codes by administration and band
Going rates in Table 4 are per year and based on a 37.5-hour week (in
Scotland, a 37-hour week). They must be pro-rated for other working
patterns, based on the weekly working hours stated by the applicant’s
sponsor. Band 1 and band 2 jobs are not eligible to be sponsored.
Except for “6131 Nursing auxiliaries and assistants”, sponsors may ONLY
sponsor Skilled Worker applicants in band 3 and band 4 jobs if the applicant
was granted permission as a Skilled Worker under the rules in place before
22 July 2025, and they have had continuous permission as a Skilled Worker
since then.
Band 1 to band 4 jobs are not eligible for the Global Business Mobility or
Scale-up routes.
Band or equivalent

England

Scotland

Wales

Northern Ireland

Band 3

£24,071

£26,869

£24,433

£22,816

Band 4

£26,530

£29,116

£26,928

£25,147

Band 5

£29,970

£31,892

£30,420

£28,407

Band 6

£37,338

£39,912

£37,898

£35,392

Band 7

£46,148

£48,788

£46,840

£43,742

Band 8a

£53,755

£60,126

£54,550

£50,952

Band 8b

£62,215

£70,986

£63,150

£58,972

Band 8c

£74,290

£83,837

£75,405

£70,417

Band 8d

£88,168

£99,534

£89,491

£83,571

Band 9

£105,385

£117,732

£106,967

£99,891

Table 5: Going rates for listed education SOC 2020
occupation codes by administration and role
Going rates in Table 5 are per year and based on the definition of a full-time
teacher used when determining these pay scales. They must be pro-rated
for other working patterns, based on the weekly working hours stated by the
applicant’s sponsor.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 104 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

Role

England
(excluding
London /
Fringe)

London
Fringe

Outer
London

Inner
London

Scotland

Wales

Unqualified
teachers /
Probationers

£21,731

£23,140

£25,758

£27,252

£33,594

£21,812

Qualified
teachers

£31,650

£33,075

£36,413

£38,766

£40,305

£32,433

Chartered
teachers

-

-

-

-

£52,158

-

Principal
teachers

-

-

-

-

£55,155

-

Leadership
group

£49,781

£51,151

£53,731

£59,186

-

£50,653

Leading
practitioner

£50,025

£51,403

£53,994

£59,478

-

£50,902

Head
teacher

£56,316

£57,693

£60,266

£65,731

£62,556

£57,304

Table 6: SOC 2020 occupation codes which are not
eligible for the Skilled Worker, Global Business
Mobility or Scale-up routes
These occupations are ineligible for the Skilled Worker, Global Business
Mobility or Scale-up routes because:
• they do not meet the required skill level; or
• applicants must be sponsored in another route for jobs in these
occupations; or
• those subject to immigration control cannot apply for jobs in these
occupations.
SOC 2020 occupation codes in Tables 1a, 2aa, 2a, 2b and 3a are also not
eligible for these routes, except where otherwise indicated.

SOC 2020 occupation code

Examples of related job
titles (non-exhaustive)

1112 Elected officers and representatives

• Councillor (local
government)
• Member of Parliament

1161 Officers in armed forces

• Army officer
• Commander (armed
forces)
• Flight-lieutenant
• Royal Navy officer
• Squadron-leader

2463 Clergy

• Chaplain
• Clergyman
• Minister of religion
• Nun
• Pastor

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 105 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

• Priest
• Vicar
3214 Complementary health associate
professionals

• Colour therapist
• Holistic therapist
• Homeopath
• Hypnotherapist
• Massage therapist
• Reflexologist

3311 Non-commissioned officers and other
ranks

• Aircraftman
• Aircraft technician (armed
forces)
• Lance-corporal
• Sergeant (armed forces)
• Soldier
• Weapons engineer
(armed forces)

3431 Sports players

• Cricketer
• Footballer
• Jockey
• Golfer

3432 Sports coaches, instructors and
officials

• Referee
• Riding instructor
• Sports coach
• Sports development
officer
• Swimming teacher

4123 Bank and post office clerks

• Bank clerk
• Cashier (banking)
• Customer service adviser
(building society)
• Customer service officer
(banking)
• Post office clerk

4131 Records clerks and assistants

• Admissions officer
• Clerical officer (hospital
service)
• Examinations officer
(education)
• Filing clerk
• Records clerk
• Ward clerk

4133 Stock control clerks and assistants

• Auditor (stock control)
• Despatch clerk
• Material controller
• Stock controller
• Stores administrator
• Supply chain coordinator

4135 Library clerks and assistants

• Archives assistant
(library)
• Information assistant
(library)
• Learning resource
assistant

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 106 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

• Library assistant
• Library clerk
• Library supervisor
4136 Human resources administrative
occupations

• Course administrator
• Human resources
administrator
• Personnel administrator
• Personnel clerk
• Training administrator

4142 Office supervisors

• Administration supervisor
• Clerical supervisor
• Facilities supervisor
• Office supervisor

4152 Data entry administrators

• Data administrator
• Database assistant
• Data entry clerk
• Database inputter

4211 Medical secretaries

• Clinic coordinator
• Clinic administrator
• Medical administrator
• Medical secretary
• Secretary (medical
practice)

4212 Legal secretaries

• Legal administrator
• Legal clerk
• Legal secretary
• Secretary (legal services)

4213 School secretaries

• Administration assistant
(schools)
• Clerical assistant
(schools)
• School administrator
• School secretary
• Secretary (schools)

4216 Receptionists

• Dental receptionist
• Doctor’s receptionist
• Medical receptionist
• Reception manager
• Receptionist
• Receptionist-administrator

4217 Typists and related keyboard
occupations

• Audio typist
• Transcriber
• Typist
• Typist-clerk

5435 Cooks

• Cook
• Cook-supervisor
• Fish fryer
• Head cook

6116 Nannies and au pairs

• Au pair

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 107 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

• Nanny
6121 Pest control officers

• Fumigator
• Pest control officer
• Pest control technician
• Pest controller

6137 Care escorts

• Bus escort
• Escort
• Passenger assistant
• School escort

6138 Undertakers, mortuary and
crematorium assistants

• Crematorium technician
• Embalmer
• Funeral director
• Pall bearer
• Undertaker

6211 Sports and leisure assistants

• Croupier
• Leisure attendant
• Lifeguard
• Runner (broadcasting)
• Sports assistant

6212 Travel agents

• Reservations agent
• Sales consultant (travel
agents)
• Travel adviser
• Travel agent
• Travel consultant

6219 Leisure and travel service
occupations not elsewhere classified

• Bus conductor
• Holiday representative
• Information assistant
(tourism)
• Steward (shipping)
• Tour guide

6221 Hairdressers and barbers

• Artistic director
(hairdressing)
• Barber
• Colourist (hairdressing)
• Hair designer
• Hair stylist
• Hairdresser

6222 Beauticians and related occupations

• Beautician
• Beauty therapist
• Nail technician
• Spa therapist

6231 Housekeepers and related
occupations

• Chalet host
• House keeper
• Lifestyle manager
• Valet

6232 Caretakers

• Caretaker
• Concierge
• Janitor

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 108 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

• Porter (college)
• School premises manager
• Site manager
(educational
establishments)
6240 Cleaning and housekeeping
managers and supervisors

• Butler
• Cleaner-in-charge
• Cleaning supervisor
• Guest service manager
• Hotel services supervisor
• House keeper (hotel)

6250 Bed and breakfast and guest house
owners and proprietors

• Guest house owner
• Landlady (guest house)

6312 Parking and civil enforcement
occupations

• Car park attendant
• Civil enforcement officer
• Community warden
• Parking attendant
• Traffic warden

7111 Sales and retail assistants

• Retail assistant
• Sales adviser
• Sales assistant
• Sales consultant (retail
trade)
• Shop assistant

7112 Retail cashiers and check-out
operators

• Cashier (wholesale trade)
• Check-out operator
• Customer team member
(retail trade)
• Forecourt attendant
• General assistant (checkout: retail trade)
• Till operator

7113 Telephone salespersons

• Inbound sales adviser
• Sales adviser (telephone
sales)
• Telesales executive
• Telesales operative

7114 Pharmacy and optical dispensing
assistants

• Dispenser
• Health care assistant
(retail pharmacy)
• Optical assistant
• Pharmacy assistant

7115 Vehicle and parts salespersons and
advisers

• Car sales executive
• Car salesman
• Parts adviser (retail trade)
• Parts technician

7121 Collector salespersons and credit
agents

• Agent (insurance)
• Canvasser
• Distributor (door-to-door
sales)
• Insurance agent

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 109 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

7122 Debt, rent and other cash collectors

• Bailiff
• Collecting agent
• Debt collector
• Meter reader
• Pawn broker
• Vending operator

7123 Roundspersons and van
salespersons

• Dairyman (retail trade:
delivery round)
• Ice-cream salesman
• Milkman (milk retailing)
• Roundsman
• Van salesman

7125 Visual merchandisers and related
occupations

• Display representative
• Fashion stylist
• Visual merchandising
assistant
• Window dresser

7129 Sales related occupations not
elsewhere classified

• Demonstrator
• Hire controller
• Insurance salesman
• Promoter (wholesale,
retail trade)
• Sales representative
(retail trade)

7211 Call and contact centre occupations

• Call centre agent
• Call centre operator
• Customer service adviser
(call centre)
• Customer service
operator

7212 Telephonists

• Call handler (motoring
organisation)
• Operator (telephone)
• Switchboard operator
(telephone)
• Telephonist
• Telephonist-receptionist

7213 Communication operators

• Call handler (emergency
services)
• Communications officer
• Control room operator
(emergency services)
• Controller (taxi service)
• Emergency medical
despatcher
• Radio operator

7219 Customer service occupations not
elsewhere classified

• Complaints officer
• Customer adviser
• Customer service
administrator
• Customer service adviser
• Customer service
assistant

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 110 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

• Customer services
representative
8111 Food, drink and tobacco process
operatives

• Baker (food products mfr)
• Bakery assistant
• Factory worker (food
products mfr)
• Meat processor (meat
packing)
• Process worker (brewery)
• Process worker (dairy)

8112 Textile process operatives

• Factory worker (clothing
mfr)
• Hosiery worker
• Machinist (rope, twine
mfr)
• Process worker (textile
mfr)
• Spinner (paper twine mfr)

8114 Plastics process operatives

• Extrusion operator
(plastics mfr)
• Fabricator (plastics mfr)
• Injection moulder
• Laminator (fibreglass)
• Process worker (plastic
goods mfr)

8115 Metal making and treating process
operatives

• Degreaser (metal trades)
• Electroplater
• Furnaceman (metal
trades)
• Process worker (nickel
mfr)
• Wire drawer

8119 Process operatives not elsewhere
classified

• Glass worker
• Moulder (rubber goods
mfr)
• Melting pot assistant
(electric cable)
• Process worker
(fibreglass mfr)
• Stone finisher (cast
concrete products mfr)

8120 Metal working machine operatives

• Engineer (nos)
• Machinist (metal trades)
• Metal polisher
• Process worker (metal
trades)
• Shot blaster

8131 Paper and wood machine operatives

• Box maker (cardboard)
• Guillotine operator
(printing)
• Machinist (paper goods
mfr)
• Sawyer
• Wood machinist

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 111 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

8132 Mining and quarry workers and
related operatives

• Coal miner
• Derrickman (oil wells)
• Diamond driller (well
sinking)
• Plant operator (quarry)
• Quarry operative

8135 Printing machine assistants

• Finishing operative
(printing)
• Lithographer (printing)
• Machinist (printing)
• Print operator
• Printer’s assistant

8139 Plant and machine operatives not
elsewhere classified

• Bench hand (metal
trades)
• Cable maker (spring mfr)
• Laser operator
• Manufacturer (metal
goods mfr)
• Saw doctor

8141 Assemblers (electrical and electronic
products)

• Assembler (electrical,
electronic equipment mfr)
• Line operator (electrical)
• Panel wirer
• Solderer
• Technical operator (circuit
board mfr)

8142 Assemblers (vehicles and metal
goods)

• Assembler (metal trades)
• Car worker
• Lineworker (vehicle mfr)
• Manufacturing operator
(metal trades)
• Process worker (metal
trades: assembly)

8144 Weighers, graders and sorters

• Grader (food products
mfr)
• Metal sorter
• Selector (ceramics mfr)
• Weighbridge clerk
• Weighbridge operator

8145 Tyre, exhaust and windscreen fitters

• Tyre and exhaust fitter
• Tyre fitter
• Tyre technician
• Windscreen fitter

8146 Sewing machinists

• Overlocker
• Seamstress
• Sewing machinist
• Stitcher
• Upholstery machinist

8149 Assemblers and routine operatives
not elsewhere classified

• Assembler
• Gluer (furniture mfr)
• Paint line operator
• Production assistant

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 112 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

• Riveter (soft toy mfr)
8151 Scaffolders, stagers and riggers

• Bell hanger (church bells)
• Rigger (film, television
production)
• Stage rigger
(shipbuilding)
• Tackleman (steelworks)

8152 Road construction operatives

• Asphalter
• Concrete finisher (building
construction)
• Highways operative
• Paver
• Road worker
• Tarmacer

8153 Rail construction and maintenance
operatives

• Line Inspector (railways)
• Maintenance man
(railway maintenance and
repair)
• Relayer (railways)
• Track maintenance
engineer
• Trackman (railways)
• Ultrasonic engineer
(railway maintenance and
repair)

8159 Construction operatives not
elsewhere classified

• Asbestos remover
• Cable layer
• Demolition worker
• General handyman
• Maintenance man
• Public lighting operative
• Thermal insulation
engineer

8160 Production, factory and assembly
supervisors

• Foreman (plasterboard
mfr)
• Leading hand (textile mfr)
• Mill foreman (food
products mfr)
• Print room supervisor
• Process supervisor
(chemical mfr)
• Production team leader
(vehicle mfr)

8211 Heavy and large goods vehicle
drivers

• Haulage contractor
• LGV/HGV driver
• Lorry driver
• Owner (HGV/LGV)
• Tanker driver

8212 Bus and coach drivers

• Bus driver
• Coach driver
• Coach operator
• Minibus driver
• PSV driver

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 113 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

8213 Taxi and cab drivers and chauffeurs

• Carriage driver
• Chauffeur
• Mini cab driver
• Taxi driver
• Taxi owner

8214 Delivery drivers and couriers

• Courier-driver
• Cash in transit driver
• Customer service team
member (delivery service)
• Delivery driver
• Meals on wheels driver
• Parcel delivery driver
• Van driver

8219 Road transport drivers not elsewhere
classified

• Driver
• Driver-cleaner
• Driver-valeter
• Recovery driver
• Test driver (vehicle mfr)

8221 Crane drivers

• Crane driver
• Crane operator
• Haulage engine driver
• Grab driver
• Winchman

8222 Fork-lift truck drivers

• Fork lift driver
• Fork lift truck driver
• Fork truck operator
• Stacker-driver

8229 Mobile machine drivers and
operatives not elsewhere classified

• Agricultural machinist
• Digger driver
• Dredger
• Excavator driver
• JCB driver
• Plant operator
• Rig operator
• Tractor driver (agriculture)

8231 Train and tram drivers

• Diesel driver (railways)
• Train driver
• Train operator
• Tram driver
• Shunter driver

8233 Air transport operatives

• Aircraft dispatcher
• Baggage handler
• Cargo handler (airport)
• Controller, airfield
• Ground staff (airport)
• Ramp agent
• Refueller (airport)

8234 Rail transport operatives

• Protection master
• Railway worker
• Shunter
• Signalman (railways)
• Transport supervisor
(railways)

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 114 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

8239 Other drivers and transport
operatives not elsewhere classified

• Bus inspector
• Marshal (transport)
• Operations assistant
(freight handling)
• Test driver (motor vehicle
mfr)
• Transport supervisor
• Yard foreman (road
transport)

9111 Farm workers

• Agricultural worker
• Farm labourer
• Farm worker
• Herdsman
• Poultry catcher
• Shepherd

9112 Forestry and related workers

• Arboricultural worker
• Forestry contractor
• Forestry worker
• Lumberjack
• Park keeper

9119 Fishing and other elementary
agriculture occupations not elsewhere
classified
- all jobs not listed in Table 1 and Table 2

• Grass cutter
• Hatchery worker (fishing)
• Horticultural worker
• Labourer (landscape
gardening)
• Mushroom picker
• Nursery worker

9121 Groundworkers

• Drainage worker
• Ground worker (building
construction)
• Trench digger

9129 Elementary construction occupations
not elsewhere classified

• Building worker
• Electrician’s mate
(building construction)
• Hod carrier
• Labourer (building
construction)
• Odd job man
• Sea diver’s assistant

9131 Industrial cleaning process
occupations

• Cleaner and greaser
• Factory cleaner
• Hygiene operative
• Industrial cleaner
• Pot washer

9132 Packers, bottlers, canners and fillers

• Factory worker (packing)
• Packaging operator
• Packer
• Paint filler

9139 Elementary process plant
occupations not elsewhere classified

• Factory worker
• Fitter’s mate
• Labourer (engineering)

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 115 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

• Material handler
9211 Postal workers, mail sorters and
messengers

• Leaflet distributor
• Mail sorter
• Messenger
• Paper boy
• Paper girl
• Postman
• Postwoman

9219 Elementary administration
occupations not elsewhere classified

• General assistant
• Office junior
• Office worker
• Reprographic technician

9221 Window cleaners

• Window cleaner
• Window cleaning
contractor

9222 Street cleaners

• Cleansing operative
(street cleaning)
• Litter picker
• Road sweeper
• Street cleaner

9223 Cleaners and domestics

• Chambermaid
• Cleaner
• Domestic
• Home help
• School cleaner

9224 Launderers, dry cleaners and
pressers

• Carpet cleaner
• Dry cleaner
• Garment presser
• Laundry assistant
• Laundry worker
• Presser (laundry,
launderette, dry cleaning)

9225 Refuse and salvage occupations

• Binman (local
government: cleansing
department)
• Dustman
• Hopper attendant (refuse
destruction)
• Recycling operative
• Refuse collector
• Salvage worker

9226 Vehicle valeters and cleaners

• Car washer
• Carriage cleaner
• Motor car polisher
(garage)
• Vehicle valeter

9229 Elementary cleaning occupations not
elsewhere classified

• Amenity block attendant
• Bin cleaner
• Chimney sweep
• Toilet cleaner

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 116 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

9231 Security guards and related
occupations

• CCTV operator
• Court usher
• Door supervisor
• Enforcement officer
• Security guard
• Security officer

9232 School midday and crossing patrol
occupations

• Dinner lady (schools)
• Lunchtime supervisor
• Midday assistant
• School crossing patrol
officer

9233 Exam invigilators

• Invigilator

9241 Shelf fillers

• Customer team member
(shelf filling)
• Evening merchandiser
• General assistant (retail
trade)
• Grocery assistant
• Shelf filler
• Shelf stacker

9251 Elementary storage supervisors

• Despatch supervisor
• Foreman (docks)
• Warehouse supervisor
• Yard foreman
(auctioneers)

9252 Warehouse operatives

• Order picker
• Storeman
• Team member
(warehousing)
• Warehouse operative
• Warehouseman

9253 Delivery operatives

• Driver’s mate
• Delivery assistant
• Furniture remover
• Porter

9259 Elementary storage occupations not
elsewhere classified

• Art handler
• Dock worker
• General assistant
(wholesale trade)
• Labourer (haulage
contractor)

9261 Bar and catering supervisors

• Bar supervisor
• Catering supervisor
• Foreman (catering)Head
waiter
• Restaurant supervisor

9262 Hospital porters

• Hospital porter
• Porter (hospital service)
• Portering supervisor
(hospital services)

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

Page 117 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Occupations - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:19 pm

9263 Kitchen and catering assistants

• Catering assistant
• Crew member (fast food
outlet)
• Kitchen assistant
• Kitchen porter
• Sandwich artist

9264 Waiters and waitresses

• Food and beverage
assistant
• Silver service waiter
• Steward (catering)
• Waiter
• Waitress

9265 Bar staff

• Barmaid
• Bar staff
• Bartender
• Glass collector (public
house)
• Mixologist (beverages)

9266 Coffee shop workers

• Barista
• Coffee shop assistant

9267 Leisure and theme park attendants

• Arcade assistant
• Art gallery assistant
• Cinema attendant
• Museum attendant
• Ride operator
• Steward (sports ground)
• Usher

9269 Other elementary services
occupations not elsewhere classified

• Bingo caller
• Cloak room attendant
• Hotel assistant
• Night porter
• Porter (residential
buildings)
• Stage hand
(entertainment)

All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-occupations

© Crown copyright

Page 118 of 118

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:18 pm

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Worker
The Skilled Worker route is for employers
to recruit people to work in the UK,
including in UK waters, in a specific job. A
Skilled Worker must have a job offer in an
eligible skilled occupation from a Home
Office-approved sponsor.
A dependent partner and dependent children can apply
on this route.
Skilled Worker is a route to settlement.

Health and Care ASHE salary jobs
SW A1.1. For the purpose of this Appendix “Health and
Care ASHE salary job” means a job in one of the
following SOC 2020 occupation codes:
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-worker

Page 1 of 56

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:18 pm

• 1171 Health services and public health managers
and directors
• 1231 Health care practice managers
• 1232 Residential, day and domiciliary care
managers and proprietors
• 2113 Biochemists and biomedical scientists
• 2114 Physical scientists
• 3111 Laboratory technicians
• 3211 Dispensing opticians
• 3212 Pharmaceutical technicians
• 6135 Care workers and home carers
• 6136 Senior care workers;
where the applicant is sponsored, employed or
engaged:
(a) by one of the following:
England
• an NHS Foundation Trust
• an NHS Trust
• the Care Quality Commission
• Health Education England
• Health Research Authority
• Human Fertilization and Embryology Authority
• Human Tissue Authority
• Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory
Agency
• National Institute for Health and Care
Excellence
• NHS Blood and Transplant
• NHS Business Services Authority
• NHS Digital (the Health and Social Care
Information Centre)
• NHS England (the NHS Commissioning Board)
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-worker

Page 2 of 56

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:18 pm

• NHS Improvement (Monitor and the NHS Trust
Development Authority
• NHS Resolution (the NHS Litigation Authority)
•UK Health Security Agency
• a Local Authority or Clinical Commissioning
Group
Wales
• a local Health Board
• Health Education & Improvement Wales
• Public Health Wales
• The Welsh Ambulance Service
• Velindre NHS Trust
Scotland
• A Health Board or Special Health Board
constituted under section 2 of the National
Health Service (Scotland) Act 1978
• Common Services Agency for the Scottish
Health Service (established under Section 10 of
that Act)
• Social Care and Social Work Improvement
Scotland (known as the Care Inspectorate)
established under Section 44 of the Public
Services (reform) (Scotland) Act 2010
•Scottish Social Services Council established
under section 43 of the Regulation of Care
(Scotland) Act 2001
Northern Ireland
• A Health and Social Care Trust in Northern
Ireland
• Northern Ireland Blood Transfusion Service
• Northern Ireland Guardian Ad Litem Agency
• Northern Ireland Medical and Dental Training
Agency
• Northern Ireland Practice and Education
Committee
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-worker

Page 3 of 56

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:18 pm

• Northern Ireland Social Care Council, Patient
and Client Council
• Regional Agency for Public Health and Social
Well-Being (the Public Health Agency)
• Regional Business Services Organisation
• Regional Health and Social Care Board
• Regulation and Quality Improvement Authority
or
(b) to provide, or to support the provision of,
regulated activities as prescribed in Schedule 1
(read with Schedule 2) to the Health and Social Care
Act 2008 (Regulated Activities) Regulations 2014
(S.I. 2014/2936), and who is also employed or
engaged by an institution or organisation registered
with the Care Quality Commission; or
(c) for the purposes of an establishment or agency in
Wales regulated under Part 2 of the Care Standards
Act 2000; or
(d) for the purposes of a service regulated under
Part 1 of the Regulation and Inspection of Social
Care (Wales) Act 2016; or
(e) on a general medical services contract to provide
primary medical services, or an agreement for the
provision of primary medical services under section
50 of the NHS (Wales) Act 2006; or
(f) on a general dental services contract to provide
primary dental services, or an agreement for the
provision of primary dental services under section 64
of the NHS (Wales) Act 2006; or
(g) to provide care services as defined in section
47(1) of the Public Services Reform (Scotland) Act
2010 and registered under that Act; or
(h) by an organisation registered with Social Care
and Social Work Improvement Scotland; or
(i) in connection with the provision of services under
the National Health Service (Scotland) Act 1978 by,
a party (other than a Health Board) to one of the
following:
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-worker

Page 4 of 56

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:18 pm

• an arrangement to provide services under
section 2C of that Act
• an agreement to provide services under section
17C of that Act
• a contract to provide services under section
17J of that Act
• an arrangement to provide services under
section 25, 26 or 27 of that Act; or
(j) by a General Practitioner Federation or by any
entity with which the Northern Ireland Regional
Health and Social Care Board has a contract or an
arrangement under the Health and Personal Social
Services (Northern Ireland) Order 1972 to provide
Family Practitioner Services; or
(k) by a body registered with, or monitored or
inspected by, the Regulation and Quality
Improvement Authority; or
(l) or registered with, one of the following
organisations:
• General Chiropractic Council
• General Dental Council
• General Medical Council
• General Optical Council
• General Osteopathic Council
• General Pharmaceutical Council
• Health and Care Professions Council
• Northern Ireland Social Care Council
• Nursing and Midwifery Council
• Pharmaceutical Society of Northern Ireland
•Scottish Social Services Council (under the
Regulation of Care (Scotland) Act 2001)
• Social Care Wales; or
(m) an organisation providing adult social care
services, meaning any services which an English
Local Authority must or may provide or arrange to be
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-worker

Page 5 of 56

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:18 pm

provided under:
(i) section 117 of the Mental Health Act 1983 –
(After-care); or
(ii) Part 1 of the Care Act 2014 (Care and
Support).

Validity requirements for a Skilled
Worker
SW 1.1. A person applying for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a Skilled Worker must apply
online on the gov.uk website on the specified form as
follows:
(a) for applicants outside the UK, form “Skilled
Worker visa”; or
(b) for applicants inside the UK, form “Skilled
Worker”.
SW 1.2. An application for entry clearance or permission
to stay as a Skilled Worker must meet all the following
requirements:
(a) any fee and Immigration Health Charge must
have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other travel document which satisfactorily
establishes their identity and nationality; and
(d) the applicant must have a certificate of
sponsorship that was issued to them by their
sponsor no more than 3 months (or 90 days, where
the Certificate of Sponsorship is linked to a
Sponsorship Reference Number, disregarding any
days during which an edit requested by a sponsor to
their Sponsor a Worker submission is being
reviewed) before the date of application.
SW 1.3. The applicant must be aged 18 or over on the
date of application.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-worker

Page 6 of 56

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:18 pm

SW 1.4. An applicant applying for entry clearance or
permission to stay, who has received an award from a
Government or international scholarship agency in the
12 months before the date of application which covers
both fees and living costs for study in the UK, must have
provided written consent to the application from that
Government or agency.
SW 1.5. If applying for permission to stay, the applicant
must be in the UK on the date of application.
SW 1.5ZA. If applying for permission to stay, the
applicant must not have, or have last been granted,
permission:
(a) as a Visitor; or
(b) as a Short-term student; or
(c) as a Parent of a Child Student; or
(d) as a Seasonal Worker; or
(e) as a Domestic Worker in a Private Household; or
(f) outside the Immigration Rules.
SW 1.5A. An applicant who is applying for permission to
stay and has, or last had, permission as a Student, must
fulfil one of the Conditions A, B or C below on the date
of application:
(a) Condition A: the applicant must have completed
the course of study for which the Confirmation of
Acceptance for Studies was assigned (or a course to
which ST 27.3 of Appendix Student applies); or
(b) Condition B:
(i) the applicant must be studying a full-time
course of study at degree level or above with a
higher education provider which has a track
record of compliance; and
(ii) the Certificate of Sponsorship in SW 1.2(d)
must have a start date no earlier than the course
completion date; or
(c) Condition C:
(i) the applicant must be studying a full-time
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-worker

Page 7 of 56

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:18 pm

course of study leading to the award of a PhD
with a higher education provider which has a
track record of compliance; and
(ii) the Certificate of Sponsorship in SW 1.2(d)
must have a start date no earlier than 24 months
after the start date of that course.
SW 1.6. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for a Skilled Worker may be
rejected as invalid and not considered.

Suitability requirements for a Skilled
Worker
SW 2.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
SW 2.2. If applying for permission to stay the applicant
must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b)on immigration bail.

Eligibility requirements for a Skilled
Worker
Entry requirements for a Skilled Worker
SW 3.1. A person seeking to come to the UK as a
Skilled Worker must apply for and obtain entry
clearance as a Skilled Worker before they arrive in the
UK.
SW 3.2. A person applying for entry clearance as a
Skilled Worker must, if Appendix Tuberculosis applies,
provide a valid medical certificate confirming that they
have undergone screening for active pulmonary
tuberculosis and that this tuberculosis is not present in
them.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-worker

Page 8 of 56

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:18 pm

SW 3.3 A person must not be applying for entry
clearance as a Skilled Worker as a national or citizen of
Afghanistan.
Points requirement for a Skilled Worker
SW 4.1. The applicant must be awarded all 50 points in
the table below. Details of how these points are
awarded are set out in SW 5.1. to SW 7.4.
Mandatory points requirements

Relevant
rules

Points

Sponsorship

SW 5.1.
to SW
5.7.

20

Job at an appropriate skill level

SW 6.1.
to SW
6.5.

20

English language skills at level B2
or, where the applicant’s most
recent permission was as a Skilled
Worker and which was granted
subject to a requirement at level
B1, level B1

SW 7.1.
to SW
7.3.

10

SW 4.2. The applicant must be awarded 20 points from
one of the options in the table below and for the purpose
of meeting these points:
(a) an applicant can only be awarded points from
options A to E, unless they meet the requirements in
(b) or (c).
(b) An applicant can only be awarded points from
options F to J if:
(i) they are being sponsored for a Health and
Care ASHE salary job; or
(ii) the date of application is before 4 April 2030,
they were granted permission as a Skilled
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-worker

Page 9 of 56

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:18 pm

Worker under the rules in place before 4 April
2024, and they have had continuous permission
as a Skilled Worker since then (except that
where the Exceptions for overstayers section of
Part Suitability applies, that period of overstaying
will be disregarded).
(c) An applicant can only be awarded points from
option K if they are being sponsored for a job in an
appropriate eligible SOC 2020 occupation code
listed in Table 3 or Table 3a of Appendix Skilled
Occupations.
(d) An applicant can be awarded points from option
F if:
(i) they are being sponsored for a job in the SOC
2020 occupation code “3314 Prison service
officers (below principal officer)”; and
(ii) the date of application is before 1 January
2028; and
(iii) the end date of the certificate of sponsorship
is not more than three years after the start date.
SW 4.3. Details of how these points are awarded are set
out in the table and in SW 8.1. to SW 13.3. The salary
for each option will be considered as set out in SW 14.1.
to SW 14.5.
SW 4.4. If the requirements for the relevant option are
met, the applicant will be awarded 20 points. However,
no points will be awarded if the applicant is not also
being awarded the 20 points for sponsorship under SW
5.7. and the 20 points for a job at the appropriate skill
level under SW 6.4.
Option

Requirements

Relevant
further
rules

Points

A

The applicant’s salary
equals or exceeds both:
• £41,700 per year; and
• the going rate for the

SW 8.1.

20

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-worker

Page 10 of 56

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:18 pm

SOC 2020 occupation
code.
B

The applicant has a PhD
in a subject relevant to
the job and their salary
equals or exceeds both:
• £37,500 per year; and
• 90% of the going rate
for the SOC 2020
occupation code.

SW 9.1.
to SW
9.4

20

C

The applicant has a PhD
in a STEM subject
relevant to the job and
their salary equals or
exceeds both:
• £33,400 per year; and
• 80% of the going rate
for the SOC 2020
occupation code.

SW 10.1.
to SW
10.3.

20

D

The applicant is being
sponsored for a job on
the Immigration Salary
List and their salary
equals or exceeds both:
• £33,400 per year; and
• the going rate for the
SOC 2020 occupation
code

SW 11.1.
to SW
11.3.

20

E

The applicant is a new
entrant at the start of
their career and their
salary equals or exceeds
both:
• £33,400 per year and
• 70% of the going rate
for the SOC 2020
occupation code.

SW 12.1.
to SW
12.3.

20

F

The applicant’s salary
equals or exceeds both:

SW 8.1

20

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-worker

Page 11 of 56

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:18 pm

• £31,300 per year; and
• the going rate for the
SOC 2020 occupation
code.
G

The applicant has a PhD
in a subject relevant to
the job and their salary
equals or exceeds both:
• £28,200 per year; and
• 90% of the going rate
for the SOC 2020
occupation code.

SW 9.1
to 9.4

20

H

The applicant has a PhD
in a STEM subject
relevant to the job and
their salary equals or
exceeds both:
• £25,000 per year; and
• 80% of the going rate
for the SOC 2020
occupation code.

SW 10.1
to 10.3.

20

I

The applicant is being
sponsored for a job on
the Immigration Salary
List and their salary
equals or exceeds both:
• £25,000 per year; and
• the going rate for the
SOC 2020 occupation
code.

SW 11.1.
to 11.3.

20

J

The applicant is a new
entrant at the start of
their career and their
salary equals or exceeds
both:
• £25,000 per year; and
• 70% of the going rate
for the SOC 2020
occupation code.

SW 12.1.
to 12.3.

20

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-worker

Page 12 of 56

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

K

The applicant is being
sponsored for a job in a
listed health or education
occupation and their
salary equals or exceeds
both:
• £25,000 per year; and
• the going rate for the
SOC 2020 occupation
code.

SW 13.1.
to 13.3.

07/05/2026, 12:18 pm

20

Points for sponsorship (mandatory)
SW 5.1. The applicant must have a valid Certificate of
Sponsorship for the job they are planning to do; which to
be valid must:
(a) confirm the applicant’s name, that they are being
sponsored as a Skilled Worker, details of the job and
salary the sponsor is offering them and PAYE details
if HM Revenue and Customs (HMRC) requires
income tax and National Insurance for the
sponsored job to be paid via PAYE; and
(b) if the application is for entry clearance, have
been allocated by the Home Office to that sponsor
for the specific job and salary details shown; and
(c) include a start date, stated by the sponsor, which
is no more than 3 months after the date of
application; and
(d) not have been used in a previous application
which was either granted or refused (but can have
been used in a previous application which was
rejected as invalid, made void or withdrawn); and
(e) not have been withdrawn by the sponsor or
cancelled by the Home Office; and (f) confirm
whether or not the Academic Technology Approval
Scheme (ATAS) requirement in Appendix ATAS
applies.
SW 5.2. The sponsor must be authorised by the Home
Office to sponsor the job in question under the Skilled
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-worker

Page 13 of 56

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:18 pm

Worker route.
SW 5.3. The sponsor must be listed as A-rated on the
Home Office’s register of licensed sponsors, unless the
applicant was last granted permission as a Skilled
Worker and is applying to continue working for the same
sponsor as in their last permission.
SW 5.4. The sponsor must have paid in full any required
Immigration Skills Charge.
SW 5.5. The decision maker must not have reasonable
grounds to believe the job the applicant is being
sponsored to do:
(a) does not exist; or
(b) is a sham; or
(c) has been created mainly so the applicant can
apply for entry clearance or permission to stay.
SW 5.6. The decision maker must not have reasonable
grounds to believe the job the applicant is being
sponsored to do amounts to:
(a) the hire of the applicant to a third party who is not
the sponsor to fill a position with that party, whether
temporary or permanent; or
(b) contract work to undertake an ongoing routine
role or to provide an ongoing routine service for a
third party who is not the sponsor, regardless of the
nature or length of any arrangement between the
sponsor and the third party.
SW 5.6A. The decision maker must not have
reasonable grounds to believe the job the applicant is
being sponsored to do does not comply with the
National Minimum Wage Regulations or the Working
Time Regulations.
SW 5.7. If the requirements in SW 5.1. to SW 5.6A. are
met, the applicant will be awarded 20 mandatory points
for sponsorship.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-worker

Page 14 of 56

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:18 pm

Points for a job at the appropriate skill level
(mandatory)
SW 6.1. Subject to SW 6.1A to SW 6.3A, the applicant
must be sponsored for a job in an eligible SOC 2020
occupation code (or, where relevant, an eligible job
within a SOC 2020 occupation code), listed as eligible
in:
(a) Table 1, Table 2 or Table 3 of Appendix Skilled
Occupations; or
(b) the Immigration Salary List in Appendix
Immigration Salary List; or
(c) the Temporary Shortage List in SW 6.1A; or
(d) Table 1a, Table 2aa or Table 3a of Appendix
Skilled Occupations if the applicant was granted
permission as a Skilled Worker under the rules in
place before 22 July 2025, and they have had
continuous permission as a Skilled Worker since
then (except that where the Exceptions for
overstayers section of Part Suitability applies, that
period of overstaying will be disregarded); or
(e) Table 2aa of Appendix Skilled Occupations, if the
applicant is being awarded points under options F to
J in the table following SW 4.4 and meets the
requirement in SW 4.2(b)(ii); or
(f) Table 2a of Appendix Skilled Occupations, if the
applicant is being awarded points under options F to
J in the table following SW 4.4, meets the
requirement in SW 4.2(b)(ii), and is applying to work
for the same sponsor as in their most recent
permission; or
(g) the SOC 2020 occupation code “3314 Prison
service officers (below principal officer)”, if the
application is for permission to stay and:
(i) the date of application is before 1 January
2027 and the end date of the certificate of
sponsorship is not more than three years after
the start date; or
(ii) the applicant was last granted permission as
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-worker

Page 15 of 56

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:18 pm

a Skilled Worker, sponsored in the SOC 2020
occupation code “3314 Prison service officers
(below principal officer)” based on a certificate of
sponsorship assigned to them before 1 January
2027.
SW 6.1A. A SOC 2020 occupation code (or, where
relevant, an eligible job within a SOC 2020 occupation
code) is only included on the Temporary Shortage List
where:
(a) it appears in the list below; and
(b) an application has been made using a certificate
of sponsorship issued by a sponsor to an applicant
before 31 December 2026.
Temporary Shortage List
1243 Managers in logistics
1258 Directors in consultancy services
3111 Laboratory technicians
3112 Electrical and electronics technicians
3113 Engineering technicians
3114 Building and civil engineering technicians
3115 Quality assurance technicians
3116 Planning, process and production technicians
3120 CAD, drawing and architectural technicians
3131 IT operations technicians
3132 IT user support technicians
3133 Database administrators and web content
technicians
3412 Authors, writers and translators
3414 Dancers and choreographers
3417 Photographers, audio-visual and broadcasting
equipment operators
3422 Clothing, fashion and accessories designers
3429 Design occupations not elsewhere classified –
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-worker

Page 16 of 56

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:18 pm

only the following job types:
Industrial and product designers
Packaging designers
Performance make-up artists
Set designers
Visual merchandising managers and designers
3512 Ship and hovercraft officers
3520 Legal associate professionals
3532 Insurance underwriters
3533 Financial and accounting technicians
3541 Estimators, valuers and assessors
3544 Data analysts
3549 Business associate professionals not elsewhere
classified – only the following job types:
Business support officers
Business systems analysts
Contract administrators
Clinical coders
Clinical trials administrators
Research coordinators
3552 Business sales executives
3554 Advertising and marketing associate
professionals
3571 Human resources and industrial relations
officers
3573 Information technology trainers
4121 Credit controllers
4122 Book-keepers, payroll managers and wages
clerks
4129 Financial administrative occupations not
elsewhere classified – only the following job types:
Box office assistants
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-worker

Page 17 of 56

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:18 pm

Grants officers
Mortgage administrators
Revenue assistants (excludes National and Local
government revenue occupations)
Treasury assistants
4132 Pensions and insurance clerks and assistants
5213 Welding trades
5214 Pipe fitters
5223 Metal working production and maintenance
fitters
5225 Air-conditioning and refrigeration installers and
repairers
5231 Vehicle technicians, mechanics and electricians
5232 Vehicle body builders and repairers
5233 Vehicle paint technicians
5235 Boat and ship builders and repairers
5241 Electricians and electrical fitters
5242 Telecoms and related network installers and
repairers
5244 Computer system and equipment installers and
servicers
5245 Security system installers and repairers
5249 Electrical and electronic trades not elsewhere
classified
5311 Steel erectors
5315 Plumbers and heating and ventilating installers
and repairers
5319 Construction and building trades not elsewhere
classified – only the following job types:
Builders
Divers
Fence erectors
Industrial climbers
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-worker

Page 18 of 56

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:18 pm

Remotely Operated Vehicle (ROV) operators
Steel fixers and underpinners
5322 Floorers and wall tilers
5323 Painters and decorators
5330 Construction and building trades supervisors
8133 Energy plant operatives
SW 6.1B. If the applicant is being sponsored in the SOC
2020 occupation code “6135 Care workers and home
carers” or “6136 Senior care workers”, the application
must be for permission to stay, and either:
(a) (i) the applicant must have been legally working
for the sponsor in one of these SOC 2020
occupation codes for at least the three months
ending on the date the certificate of sponsorship was
issued by the sponsor to the applicant; and
(ii) the date of application must be before 22 July
2028; or
(b) the applicant must have permission as a Skilled
Worker, sponsored in either of these SOC 2020
occupations codes (or the SOC 2010 occupation
codes “6145 Care workers and home carers” or
“6146 Senior care workers”) (except that where the
Exceptions for overstayers section of Part Suitability
applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded).
SW 6.1C. If SW 6.1B applies and the applicant:
(a) was previously granted permission as a Skilled
Worker, sponsored in the SOC 2010 occupation
code “6145 Care workers and home carers” or “6146
Senior care workers”, under the Rules in force
before 11 March 2024; and
(b) since then, has continuously had permission as a
Skilled Worker, sponsored in either or both these
SOC 2010 occupation codes, or SOC 2020
occupation codes “6135 Care workers and home
carers” or “6136 Senior care workers” (except that
where the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-worker

Page 19 of 56

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:18 pm

Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded); and
(c) is applying to continue working with the same
sponsor as in their most recent grant of permission,
the Care Quality Commission regulation requirement for
these occupation codes does not apply.
SW 6.2. The sponsor must choose an appropriate SOC
2020 occupation code, and the decision maker must not
have reasonable grounds to believe the sponsor has
chosen a less appropriate SOC 2020 occupation code
for any of the following reasons:
(a) the most appropriate SOC 2020 occupation code
is not eligible under the Skilled Worker route; or
(b) the most appropriate SOC 2020 occupation code
has a higher going rate than the proposed salary; or
(c) the most appropriate SOC 2020 occupation code
is not on the Immigration Salary List and the
applicant is claiming points for a job on the
Immigration Salary List; or
(d) the most appropriate SOC 2020 occupation code
is not listed as “eligible for PhD points” in Table 1 of
Appendix Skilled Occupations and the applicant is
claiming points for an educational qualification.
SW 6.3. To support the assessment in SW 6.2., the
decision maker may, in particular, consider:
(a) whether the sponsor has shown a genuine need
for the job as described; and
(b) whether the applicant has the appropriate skills,
qualifications and experience needed to do the job
as described; and
(c) the sponsor’s history of compliance with the
immigration system including, but not limited to,
paying its sponsored workers appropriately; and
(d) any additional information from the sponsor.
SW 6.3A. If the ATAS requirement in Appendix ATAS
applies, the applicant must provide a valid ATAS
certificate.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-worker

Page 20 of 56

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:18 pm

SW 6.4. If the requirements in SW 6.1. to SW 6.3A. are
met, an applicant will be awarded 20 mandatory points
for a job at the appropriate skill level, subject to SW 6.5.
SW 6.5. No points will be awarded for a job at the
appropriate skill level if the applicant is not also being
awarded the 20 mandatory points for sponsorship under
SW 5.7.
Points for the English language requirement
(mandatory)
SW 7.1. An applicant must show English language
ability on the Common European Framework of
Reference for Languages in all 4 components (reading,
writing, speaking and listening) to at least the level
specified by SW 4.1.
SW 7.2. The applicant must show they meet the English
language requirement as specified in Appendix English
Language.
SW 7.3. If the requirements in SW 7.1. to SW 7.2. are
met, the applicant will be awarded 10 mandatory points
for meeting the English language requirement.
Points options A and F
SW 8.1. The applicant must meet the going rate salary
requirement for the SOC 2020 occupation code they are
being sponsored for a job in, as shown for the relevant
option in:
(a) Table 1 or Table 1a of Appendix Skilled
Occupations, if being awarded points under option
A; or
(b) Table 2, Table 2aa or Table 2a of Appendix
Skilled Occupations, if being awarded points under
option F.
Points options B and G
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-worker

Page 21 of 56

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:18 pm

SW 9.1. The applicant must be sponsored for a job in a
SOC 2020 occupation code listed as being “eligible for
PhD points” in:
(a) Table 1 or Table 1a of Appendix Skilled
Occupations, if being awarded points under option
B; or
(b) Table 2, Table 2aa or Table 2a of Appendix
Skilled Occupations, if being awarded points under
option G;
and the applicant must meet the relevant going rate
salary requirement for the SOC 2020 occupation code
shown for the relevant option in that table.
SW 9.2. The applicant must have a UK PhD or other
academic doctoral qualification, or an overseas
academic qualification which Ecctis confirms meets the
recognised standard of a UK PhD.
SW 9.3. The applicant’s sponsor must have provided a
credible explanation of how the qualification is relevant
to the job for which the applicant is being sponsored.
SW 9.4. If the applicant has been correctly awarded
points for an educational qualification in a previous grant
of permission as a Skilled Worker, the applicant does
not need to provide evidence of the qualification again,
but the sponsor must still have provided the explanation
of how the qualification is relevant to the job for which
the applicant is being sponsored.
Points options C and H
SW 10.1. The applicant must be sponsored for a job in a
SOC 2020 occupation code listed as being “eligible for
PhD points” in:
(a) Table 1 or Table 1a of Appendix Skilled
Occupations, if being awarded points under option
C; or
(b) Table 2, Table 2aa or Table 2a of Appendix
Skilled Occupations, if being awarded points under
option H;
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-worker

Page 22 of 56

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:18 pm

and the applicant must meet the relevant going rate
salary requirement for the SOC 2020 occupation code
shown for the relevant option in that table.
SW 10.2. The applicant must meet the requirements in
SW 9.2. to SW 9.4.
SW 10.3. The applicant’s sponsor must have provided a
credible explanation that the qualification in question is
in a Science, Technology, Engineering or Mathematics
(STEM) subject.
Points options D and I
SW 11.1. The applicant must be sponsored for a job in
an eligible SOC 2020 occupation code (or, where
relevant, an eligible job within a SOC 2020 occupation
code) listed in Appendix Immigration Salary List for the
nation of the UK where that job is based, unless SW
11.2. applies.
SW 11.2. If, on or before the date the sponsor assigned
the Certificate of Sponsorship to the applicant, the
applicant’s job was removed from Appendix Immigration
Salary List (or the previous Appendix Shortage
Occupation List), both of the following conditions must
be met:
(a) the applicant’s most recent permission was as a
Skilled Worker in which they were sponsored to
work in a job listed in Appendix Immigration Salary
List (or the previous Appendix Shortage Occupation
List) under the applicable rules at that time; and
(b) the applicant is being sponsored to continue
working in the same job for the same sponsor as in
their previous permission.
SW 11.3. The applicant must meet the going rate salary
requirement for the SOC 2020 occupation code they are
being sponsored for a job in, as shown for the relevant
option in:
(a) Table 1 or Table 1a of Appendix Skilled
Occupations, if being awarded points under option
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-worker

Page 23 of 56

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:18 pm

D; or
(b) Table 2, Table 2aa or Table 2a of Appendix
Skilled Occupations, if being awarded points under
option I.
Points options E and J
SW 12.1. The applicant must meet the going rate salary
requirement for the SOC 2020 occupation code they are
being sponsored for a job in, as shown for the relevant
option in:
(a) Table 1 or Table 1a of Appendix Skilled
Occupations, if being awarded points under option
E; or
(b) Table 2, Table 2aa or Table 2a of Appendix
Skilled Occupations, if being awarded points under
option J.
SW 12.2. The applicant must meet one or more of the
following requirements:
(a) the applicant must be under the age of 26 on the
date of application; or
(b) the job for which the applicant is being
sponsored must be a postdoctoral position in any of
the following SOC 2020 occupation codes:
• 2111 Chemical scientists
• 2112 Biological scientists
• 2113 Biochemists and biomedical scientists
• 2114 Physical scientists
• 2115 Social and humanities scientists
• 2119 Natural and social science professionals
not elsewhere classified
• 2162 Other researchers, unspecified discipline
• 2311 Higher education teaching professionals;
or
(c) the job for which the applicant is being sponsored
must be in a UK Regulated Profession and the
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-worker

Page 24 of 56

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:18 pm

applicant must be working towards a recognised UK
professional qualification for that profession; or
(d) the applicant must be working towards full
registration or chartered status with the relevant
professional body for the job for which they are
being sponsored; or
(e) all of the following conditions apply:
(i) the applicant’s most recent permission
(disregarding any permission as a visitor) was as
a Student; and
(ii) if that Student permission has expired, it must
have expired less than 2 years before the date of
application; and
(iii) in that Student permission or any previous
permission as a Student, the applicant was
sponsored to study one of the following courses
(not any other qualifications of an equivalent
level):
• a UK bachelor’s degree; or
• a UK master’s degree; or
• a UK PhD or other doctoral qualification; or
• a Postgraduate Certificate in Education; or
• a Professional Graduate Diploma of
Education; and
(iv) the applicant has completed (or is applying
no more than 3 months before they are expected
to complete) the course in SW 12.2(e)(iii) above,
or the applicant is currently studying for a PhD
for which they have completed at least 12
months study in the UK, or
(f) the applicant’s most recent permission
(disregarding any permission as a visitor) was as a
Graduate, and if that permission has expired, it must
have expired less than 2 years before the date of
application.
SW 12.3. Granting the application must not mean the
applicant’s combined permission as a Skilled Worker,
Graduate and/or Tier 2 Migrant would be more than 4
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-worker

Page 25 of 56

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:18 pm

years in total, whether or not the permission is for a
continuous period.
Points option K
SW 13.1. The applicant must meet the going rate salary
requirement for the SOC 2020 occupation code they are
being sponsored for a job in (or, where relevant, the job
within that SOC 2020 occupation code), as shown in
Table 3, 3a, 4 or 5 of Appendix Skilled Occupations.
SW 13.2. If the applicant is being sponsored for a job in
one of the following SOC 2020 occupation codes:
• 2231 Midwifery nurses
•2232 Community nurses
• 2233 Specialist nurses
• 2234 Nurse practitioners
• 2235 Mental health nurses
• 2236 Children’s nurses
• 2237 Other nursing professionals
their salary may be temporarily (for up to 8 months) less
than the £25,000 per year required under points option
K in either of the following circumstances:
(a) the applicant has previously held Nursing and
Midwifery Council (NMC) registration and is
undertaking an NMC-approved programme with a
view to returning to practice; or
(b) the applicant is working towards NMC
registration, and both of the following apply:
(i) the applicant has passed the NMC’s English
language requirements and Computer Based
Test of competence, before the date of
application; and
(ii) the applicant will sit an Objective Structured
Clinical Examination (OSCE) to obtain NMC
registration no later than 3 months after the
stated job start date.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-worker

Page 26 of 56

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:18 pm

SW 13.3. Where SW 13.2. applies:
(a) the sponsor must have confirmed that the
applicant will stop being sponsored if they do not
achieve full NMC registration within 8 months of the
job start date (if the applicant was last granted
permission to work in one of the SOC 2020
occupation codes in SW 13.2, or either of the SOC
2010 occupation codes “2231 Nurses” or “2232
Midwives”, on the Skilled Worker route, the 8
months is counted from the start date of the job they
were sponsored to do in their most recent
permission); and
(b) during the 8 months in (a), or until the applicant
achieves NMC registration (if sooner), the
applicant’s salary must be at least equal to the
appropriate Agenda for Change Band 3 rate, as
stated in Table 4 of Appendix Skilled Occupations.
Consideration of salary (all tradeable points
options)
SW 14.1. Salary only includes guaranteed basic gross
pay (before income tax and including employee pension
and national insurance contributions) and other
guaranteed payments which are treated exactly the
same as basic gross pay for tax, pension and national
insurance purposes .
SW 14.2. Salary does not include other pay and
benefits, such as any of the following:
(a) pay which cannot be guaranteed because the
nature of the job means that hours fluctuate; or
(b) additional pay such as shift, overtime or bonus
pay, (whether or not it is guaranteed); or
(c) employer pension and employer national
insurance contributions; or
(d) any allowances, such as accommodation or cost
of living allowances; or
(e) in-kind benefits, such as equity shares, health
insurance, school or university fees, company cars
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-worker

Page 27 of 56

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:18 pm

or food; or
(f) one-off payments, such as ‘golden hellos’; or
(g) any payments relating to immigration costs, such
as the fee or Immigration Health Charge; or
(h) payments to cover business expenses, including
(but not limited to) travel to and from the applicant’s
country of residence, equipment, clothing, travel or
subsistence.
SW 14.2A. Any money paid by the applicant to the
sponsor (or a related organisation) will be considered as
follows:
(a) The following payments will be subtracted from
salary, unless (c) applies:
(i) deductions from salary; or
(ii) repayments of loans; or
(iii) investments.
(b) Any such subtractions will be averaged over the
length of time the applicant is being sponsored for,
for the purpose of salary considerations.
(c) Money will not be deducted where the payment is
not related to business costs, immigration costs or
investment, but rather an additional benefit offer
which the applicant has a genuine choice whether to
take up, for example salary sacrifice arrangements.
SW 14.3. If the applicant is being sponsored to work
more than 48 hours a week, subject to SW 14.3A, only
the salary for the first 48 hours a week will be
considered towards the salary thresholds referred to in
the table following SW 4.4.
For example, an applicant who works 60 hours a week
for £15 per hour will be considered to have a salary of
£37,440 (£15 x 48 x 52) per year and not £46,800 (£15
x 60 x 52).
SW 14.3A. If the applicant is being sponsored to work a
pattern where the regular hours are not the same each
week, resulting in uneven pay:
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-worker

Page 28 of 56

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:18 pm

(a) work in excess of 48 hours in some weeks can
be considered towards the salary thresholds,
providing the average over a regular cycle (which
can be less than, but not more than, 17 weeks) is
not more than 48 hours a week; and
(b) any unpaid rest weeks will count towards the
average when considering whether the salary
thresholds are met; and
(c) any unpaid rest weeks will not count as absences
from employment for the purpose of paragraph SUI
36.1. of Part Suitability of these rules.
For example, an applicant who works a pattern of 60
hours a week for £12 per hour for two weeks, followed
by an unpaid rest week, will be considered to work 40
hours a week on average and have a salary of £24,960
(£12 x 40 x 52) per year.
SW 14.3B. A worker must be paid the required salary in
pay periods of at least monthly frequency, or as
otherwise specified in their contract, and:
(a) The salary paid to the worker in each pay period
must equal or exceed the going rate for every hour
worked in that pay period.
(b) Subject to (c) and (d):
(i) where the worker is paid at a frequency of
monthly or less, the salary paid to the worker
over any three-month period must be at least
equal to a quarter of the required annual salary;
or
(ii) where the worker is paid more frequently, the
salary paid to the worker over any 12-week
period must be at least equal to 12/52 of the
required annual salary.
(c) If the worker is being sponsored to work a pattern
where the regular hours are not the same each
week, resulting in uneven pay, the sponsor must
confirm the working pattern and the salary over any
17-week period must be at least equal to 17/52 of
the required annual salary.
(d) If the pay is below the requirements in (c) in any
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-worker

Page 29 of 56

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:18 pm

given period, due to salary subtractions in SW
14.2(a) being subtracted over a shorter period than
the length of time the applicant is being sponsored
for, the sponsor must confirm this.
SW 14.4. Going rates will be pro-rated to the applicant’s
working pattern, as follows:
(a) going rates for SOC 2020 occupation codes
listed in Tables 1 to 2a of Appendix Skilled
Occupations are based on a 37.5-hour week and will
be pro-rated as follows:
(the going rate for the SOC 2020 occupation code
stated in Tables 1 to 2a of Appendix Skilled
Occupations) x (the number of weekly working hours
stated by the sponsor ÷ 37.5)
(b) where an applicant’s salary is required to be
70%, 80% or 90% of the going rate, the resulting
figure from the calculation in (a) will be multiplied by
0.7, 0.8 or 0.9 as appropriate, to calculate the
required salary; and.
(c) going rates for the health and education SOC
2020 occupation codes listed in Tables 3 to 5 of
Appendix Skilled Occupations will be pro-rated as
stated in Appendix Skilled Occupations; and
(d) the applicant’s full weekly hours will be included
when checking their salary against the going rate,
even if they work more than 48 hours a week.
Transitional arrangements for salary on the Skilled
Worker route
SW 14.5. If the applicant is applying for permission to
stay or settlement, the applicant was granted permission
as a Tier 2 (General) Migrant and has had continuous
permission as a Skilled Worker ever since, the following
transitional arrangements apply:
(a) if the date of application is before 1 December
2026 salary may also include allowances (the other
restrictions in SW 14.20 also apply), providing the
following conditions are met:
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-worker

Page 30 of 56

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:18 pm

(i) the applicant is applying to work for the same
sponsor as in their previous permission; and
(ii) the allowances are guaranteed, will be paid
for the duration of the applicant’s permission,
and would be paid to a local settled worker in
similar circumstances, such as London
weighting; and
(b) DELETED
(c) if the applicant:
(i) was sponsored to work in one of the SOC
2010 occupation codes in the table below at the
time they applied for their last permission as a
Tier 2 (General) Migrant; and
(ii) has continued to be sponsored in that SOC
2010 occupation code or an equivalent SOC
2020 occupation code ever since (whether as a
Tier 2 (General) Migrant and/or as a Skilled
Worker); and
(iii) the date of application is before 1 December
2026;
the going rates in the table below apply, instead of the
going rates listed in Table 2 of Appendix Skilled
Occupations. These going rates are based on a 37.5hour working week and must be pro-rated for other
working patterns, based on the weekly working hours
stated by the applicant’s sponsor:
SOC 2010
occupation
code

Equivalent
SOC 2020
occupation
code(s)

Going
rate –
options
F and I

90% of
going
rate –
option
G

80% of
going
rate –
option
H

2113
Physical
scientists

• 2114
Physical
scientists

£27,190
(£13.94
per
hour)

£25,000
(£12.82
per
hour)

£25,000
(£12.82
per
hour)

2119 Natural
and social

• 2119
Natural and

£27,190
(£13.94

£25,000
(£12.82

£25,000
(£12.82

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-worker

Page 31 of 56

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:18 pm

science
professionals
not
elsewhere
classified

social
science
professionals
not
elsewhere
classified
• 2162 Other
researchers,
unspecified
discipline

per
hour)

per
hour)

per
hour)

2311 Higher
education
teaching
professionals

• 2162 Other
researchers,
unspecified
discipline
• 2311
Higher
education
teaching
professionals
• 2322
Education
managers

£30,940
(£15.87
per
hour)

£27,840
(£14.28
per
hour)

£25,000
(£12.82
per
hour)

SW 14.6. DELETED.
Genuineness requirement for a Skilled Worker
SW 14A.1. The applicant must:
(a) genuinely intend, and be able, to undertake the
role for which they are being sponsored; and
(b) not intend to undertake employment other than in
the role for which they are being sponsored, or as
otherwise permitted by SW 18.2.
Financial requirement (mandatory) for a Skilled
Worker
SW 15.1. If the applicant is applying for permission to
stay and has been in the UK with permission for 12
months or longer on the date of application, they will
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-worker

Page 32 of 56

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:18 pm

meet the financial requirement and do not need to show
funds.
SW 15.2. If the applicant is applying for entry clearance,
or has been in the UK for less than 12 months on the
date of application, either:
(a) the applicant must have funds of at least £1,270;
or
(b) the applicant’s A-rated sponsor must certify that
they will, if necessary, maintain and accommodate
the applicant up to the end of the first month of their
employment, to an amount of at least £1,270.
SW 15.3. If SW 15.2.(a) applies, the applicant must
show that they have held the required funds for a 28day period and as specified in Appendix Finance.
Criminal record certificate requirement (mandatory)
for a Skilled Worker
SW 16.1. If the applicant is applying for entry clearance
and is being sponsored for a job in any of the SOC 2020
occupation codes listed below, they must provide a
criminal record certificate from the relevant authority in
any country in which they have been present for 12
months or more (whether continuously or in total) in the
10 years before the date of application, and while aged
18 or over:
• 1171 Health services and public health managers
and directors
• 1172 Social services managers and directors
• 1231 Health care practice managers
• 1232 Residential, day and domiciliary care
managers and proprietors
• 1233 Early education and childcare services
proprietors
• 2211 Generalist medical practitioners
• 2212 Specialist medical practitioners
• 2221 Physiotherapists
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-worker

Page 33 of 56

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:18 pm

• 2222 Occupational therapists
• 2223 Speech and language therapists
• 2224 Psychotherapists and cognitive behaviour
therapists
• 2225 Clinical psychologists
• 2226 Other psychologists
• 2229 Therapy professionals not elsewhere
classified
• 2231 Midwifery nurses
• 2232 Community nurses
• 2233 Specialist nurses
• 2234 Nurse practitioners
• 2235 Mental health nurses
• 2236 Children’s nurses
• 2237 Other nursing professionals
• 2251 Pharmacists
• 2252 Optometrists
• 2253 Dental practitioners
• 2254 Medical radiographers
• 2255 Paramedics
• 2256 Podiatrists
• 2259 Other health professionals not elsewhere
classified
• 2312 Further education teaching professionals
• 2313 Secondary education teaching professionals
• 2314 Primary education teaching professionals
• 2315 Nursery education teaching professionals
• 2316 Special and additional needs education
teaching professionals
• 2317 Teachers of English as a foreign language
• 2319 Teaching professionals not elsewhere
classified
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-worker

Page 34 of 56

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:18 pm

• 2321 Head teachers and principals
• 2322 Education managers
• 2323 Education advisers and school inspectors
• 2324 Early education and childcare services
managers
• 2329 Other educational professionals not
elsewhere classified
• 2461 Social workers
• 2462 Probation officers
•2464 Youth work professionals
• 2469 Welfare professionals not elsewhere
classified
• 3211 Dispensing opticians
• 3212 Pharmaceutical technicians
• 3213 Medical and dental technicians
• 3214 Complementary health associate
professionals
• 3219 Health associate professionals not elsewhere
classified
• 3221 Youth and community workers
• 3222 Child and early years officers
• 3223 Housing officers
• 3224 Counsellors
• 3229 Welfare and housing associate professionals
not elsewhere classified
• 3231 Higher level teaching assistants
• 3232 Early education and childcare practitioners
• 3433 Fitness and wellbeing instructors
• 3571 Human resources and industrial relations
officers
• 6111 Early education and childcare assistants
• 6112 Teaching assistants
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-worker

Page 35 of 56

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:18 pm

• 6113 Educational support assistants
• 6114 Childminders
• 6117 Playworkers
• 6131 Nursing auxiliaries and assistants
• 6132 Ambulance staff (excluding paramedics)
• 6133 Dental nurses
• 6134 Houseparents and residential wardens
• 6135 Care workers and home carers
• 6136 Senior care workers
SW 16.2. The requirement in SW 16.1. does not apply if
the applicant provides a satisfactory explanation why it
is not reasonably practicable for them to obtain a
criminal record certificate from any or all of the relevant
authorities.

Decision on an application as a Skilled
Worker
SW 17.1. If the decision maker is satisfied all the
suitability and relevant eligibility requirements for a
Skilled Worker are met, the application will be granted,
otherwise the application will be refused.
SW 17.2. If the application is refused, the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.
Period of grant for a Skilled Worker
SW 18.1. The applicant will be granted entry clearance
or permission to stay until 14 days after the end date of
their certificate of sponsorship (the end date of the
certificate of sponsorship may be up to a maximum of 5
years after the start date of their certificate of
sponsorship), subject to SW 18.1A.
SW 18.1A. If the applicant is being sponsored in the
SOC 2020 occupation code “2211 Generalist medical
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-worker

Page 36 of 56

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:18 pm

practitioners” for General Practitioner (GP) specialty
training, they will be granted entry clearance or
permission to stay until 4 months after the end date of
their certificate of sponsorship.
Conditions of grant for a Skilled Worker
SW 18.2. The grant will be subject to all the following
conditions:
(a) no access to public funds; and
(b) work is permitted only in the job the applicant is
being sponsored for, subject to (c) to (e); and
(c) supplementary employment is permitted,
providing the person continues to work in the job for
which they are being sponsored (and where the
supplementary employment takes place during the
4-month period after the end date of their certificate
of sponsorship referred to in SW 18.1A the
requirement to continue to work for the sponsor will
not apply); and
(d) voluntary work is permitted; and
(e) working out a contractual notice period is
permitted, for a job the applicant was lawfully
working in on the date of application; and
(f) study is permitted, subject to the ATAS condition
in Appendix ATAS.
(g) DELETED

Settlement as a Skilled Worker
Validity requirements for settlement as a Skilled
Worker
SW 19.1. A person applying for settlement as a Skilled
Worker must apply online on the gov.uk website on the
specified form, “Settle in the UK in various immigration
categories: form SET(O)”.
SW 19.2. An application for settlement as a Skilled
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-worker

Page 37 of 56

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:18 pm

Worker must meet all the following requirements:
(a) any fee must have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other travel document which satisfactorily
establishes their identity and nationality; and
(d) the applicant must be in the UK on the date of
application.
SW 19.3. The applicant must have, or have last been
granted, permission as a Skilled Worker.
SW 19.4. An application which does not meet the
validity requirements for settlement as a Skilled worker
may be rejected as invalid and not considered.
Suitability requirements for settlement as a Skilled
Worker
SW 20.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
SW 20.2. The applicant must not be;
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.
Eligibility requirements for settlement as a Skilled
Worker
Qualifying period requirement for settlement as a
Skilled Worker
SW 21.1. The applicant must have spent a continuous
period of 5 years in the UK.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-worker

Page 38 of 56

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:18 pm

SW 21.2. The 5-year continuous period must consist of
time with permission (not as a dependant) on any of, or
any combination of, the following routes:
(a) Skilled Worker; or
(b) Global talent; or
(c) Innovator Founder; or
(d) T2 Minister of Religion; or
(e) International Sportsperson; or
(f) Representative of an Overseas Business; or
(g) Tier 1, other than Tier 1 (Graduate
Entrepreneur); or
(h) Scale-up; or
(i) permission on any other route, during the time the
applicant was waiting for a decision on their
application as a Skilled Worker, provided that
application:
(i) was for permission to stay; and
(ii) was made between 24 January 2020 and 30
June 2021 (inclusive); and
(iii) was supported on the date of application by a
certificate of sponsorship assigned by a licensed
sponsor; and
(iv) was granted.
Continuous residence requirement for settlement as
a Skilled Worker
SW 22.1. The applicant must meet the continuous
residence requirement as set out in Appendix
Continuous Residence during the period in SW 21.1.
English language requirement for settlement as a
Skilled Worker
SW 22A.1. Where the date of application is on or after
26 March 2027, the applicant must, unless an
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-worker

Page 39 of 56

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:18 pm

exemption applies, show English language ability on the
Common European Framework of Reference for
Languages in speaking and listening to at least level B2.
SW 22A.2. The applicant must show they meet the
English language requirement as specified in Appendix
English Language.
Knowledge of life in the UK requirement for
settlement as a Skilled Worker
SW 23.1. The applicant must meet the knowledge of
Life in the UK requirement as set out in Appendix KOL
UK.
Sponsorship and salary requirement for settlement
as a Skilled Worker
SW 24.1. The sponsor in the applicant’s most recent
permission must still be approved by the Home Office to
sponsor Skilled Workers on the date of decision.
SW 24.2. The sponsor must confirm that they still
require the applicant to work for them for the
foreseeable future, and that the applicant is paid, and
will be paid for the foreseeable future, at least the salary
in SW 24.3.
SW 24.3. Subject to SW 24.4, the applicant’s salary
must equal or exceed both salary requirements shown
in the relevant row of the table below.

A

Applicant’s
circumstances

General
salary

Going rate

All cases where rows
B to E do not apply

Salary
of at
least
£41,700
per year

At least the
relevant going
rate listed in
Table 1 or Table
1a of Appendix
Skilled
Occupations

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-worker

Page 40 of 56

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

B

The applicant was
sponsored in their
most recent
permission for a job in
Appendix Immigration
Salary List, and rows
C to E do not apply.

Salary
of at
least
£33,400
per year

At least the
relevant going
rate listed in
Table 1 or Table
1a of Appendix
Skilled
Occupations

C

The applicant meets
the requirements of
SW 4.2(b), save that
references to being
sponsored should be
read as meeting the
requirements in SW
24.1. to SW 24.2, and
rows D and E do not
apply.

Salary
of at
least
£31,300
per year

At least the
relevant going
rate listed in
Tables 2 to 2a
of Appendix
Skilled
Occupations

D

The applicant was
sponsored in their
most recent
permission for a job in
either:

Salary
of at
least
£25,000
per year

At least the
relevant going
rate listed in
Tables 2 to 5 of
Appendix
Skilled
Occupations

• Appendix
Immigration Salary
List (or the previous
Appendix Shortage
Occupation List), and
the applicant meets
the requirements of
SW 4.2(b), save that
references to being
sponsored should be
read as meeting the
requirements in SW
24.1. to SW 24.2; or

07/05/2026, 12:18 pm

• a health or education
SOC 2020 occupation
code listed in Table 3
of Appendix Skilled
Occupations (or a
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-worker

Page 41 of 56

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:18 pm

related SOC 2010
occupation code
shown in that table);
and, in either case,
row E does not apply.
E

The 5-year qualifying
period for settlement
includes time as a Tier
2 (General) Migrant in
which the applicant
was sponsored for a
job in one of the
following SOC 2010
occupation codes:
• 2111 Chemical
scientists
• 2112 Biological
scientists and
biochemists
• 2113 Physical
scientists
• 2114 Social and
humanities scientists
• 2119 Natural and
social science
professionals not
elsewhere classified
• 2150 Research and
development
managers
• 2311 Higher
education teaching
professionals

Salary
of at
least
£25,000
per year

At least the
going rate in
the table at SW
14.5(c), if the
applicant has
continued to be
sponsored in
that SOC 2010
occupation
code, or the
equivalent SOC
2020
occupation
code shown in
Table 2 of
Appendix
Skilled
Occupations,
ever since.
At least the
relevant going
rate in Tables 2
to 5 of
Appendix
Skilled
Occupations, in
other cases.

SW 24.4. Salary under the table in SW 24.3 is subject to
the following:
(a) salary will be considered as set out in SW 14.1.
to SW 14.5. (and in SW 14.3., references to the
salary thresholds of £41,700, £33,400, £31,300 or
£25,000 per year should be read as including
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-worker

Page 42 of 56

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:18 pm

references in the table in SW 24.3 above); and
(b) if the applicant is currently absent from work for
one of the reasons set out in Part Suitability
paragraph SUI 36.1., or has returned from such an
absence within the month before the date of
application, consideration will be based on their
salary on their return to work, as stated by their
sponsor.
Decision on an application for settlement as a
Skilled Worker
SW 25.1. If the decision maker is satisfied all the
suitability and eligibility requirements for settlement as a
Skilled Worker are met, the applicant will be granted
settlement, otherwise the application will be refused.
SW 25.2. If the application is refused, the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.

Dependants of a Skilled Worker
Validity requirements for a dependent partner or
dependent child of a Skilled Worker
SW 26.1. A person applying for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a dependent partner or dependent
child of a Skilled Worker must apply online on the
gov.uk website on the specified form as follows:
Location of Partner or Child

Specified form

Applicant outside the UK

Dependant partner visa
Dependant child visa

Applicant inside the UK

Dependant partner
Dependant child

SW 26.2. An application for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a partner or child of a Skilled
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-worker

Page 43 of 56

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:18 pm

Worker must meet all the following requirements:
(a) any fee and Immigration Health Charge must
have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other travel document which satisfactorily
establishes their identity and nationality; and
(d) the applicant must be applying as partner or child
of a person (P) who:
(i) has made a valid application for entry
clearance or permission to stay in the UK on the
Skilled Worker route that has not been decided;
or
(ii) has entry clearance or permission to stay on
the Skilled Worker route; or
(iii) is settled or has become a British citizen,
providing that P had permission on the Skilled
Worker route when they settled and the applicant
either had permission as their partner or child at
that time, or the applicant is applying as a child
of P and the applicant was born in the UK before
P settled.
SW 26.3. If the applicant is applying as a dependent
partner they must be aged 18 or over on the date of
application.
SW 26.4. If applying for permission to stay, the applicant
must be in the UK on the date of application.
SW 26.4ZA. If applying for permission to stay, the
applicant must not have, or have last been granted,
permission:
(a) as a Visitor; or
(b) as a Short-term Student; or
(c) as a Parent of a Child Student; or
(d) as a Seasonal Worker; or
(e) as a Domestic Worker in a Private Household; or
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-worker

Page 44 of 56

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:18 pm

(f) outside the Immigration Rules.
SW 26.4A. An applicant who is applying for permission
to stay and has, or last had, permission as a Student,
must fulfil one of the Conditions A or B below on the
date of application:
(a) Condition A: the applicant must have completed
the course of study for which the Confirmation of
Acceptance for Studies was assigned (or a course to
which ST 27.3 of Appendix Student applies); or
(b) Condition B: the applicant must:
(i) be studying a full-time course of study leading
to the award of a PhD with a higher education
provider which has a track record of compliance;
and
(ii) have completed at least 24 months of study
on that course.
SW 26.5. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for a partner or child of a Skilled
Worker may be rejected as invalid and not considered.
Suitability requirements for a dependent partner or
dependent child of a Skilled Worker
SW 27.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
SW 27.2. If applying for permission to stay the applicant
must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.
Eligibility requirements for a dependent partner or
dependent child of a Skilled Worker

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-worker

Page 45 of 56

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:18 pm

Entry requirement for a dependent partner or
dependent child of a Skilled Worker
SW 28.1. A person seeking to come to the UK as a
dependent partner or dependent child of a Skilled
Worker must apply for and obtain entry clearance as a
dependent partner or dependent child of a Skilled
Worker before they arrive in the UK.
SW 28.2. A person applying for entry clearance as the
partner or child of a Skilled Worker must, if Appendix
Tuberculosis applies, provide a valid medical certificate
confirming that they have undergone screening for
active pulmonary tuberculosis and that this tuberculosis
is not present in them.
Relationship requirement for a dependent partner of
a Skilled Worker
SW 29.1. Subject to SW 29.1A, the applicant must be
the partner of a person (P) where one of the following
applies:
(a) P has permission on the Skilled Worker route; or
(b) P is, at the same time, applying for (and is
granted) entry clearance or permission on the
Skilled Worker route; or
(c) P is settled or has become a British citizen,
providing P had permission on the Skilled Worker
route when they settled and the applicant had
permission as P’s partner at that time.
SW 29.1A. In SW 29.1(a) and (b), P must have (or be
applying for) entry clearance or permission as a Skilled
Worker sponsored for a job in Table 1, Table 2 or Table
3 of Appendix Skilled Occupations, unless P:
(a) was (or is being) granted entry clearance or
permission as a Skilled Worker, sponsored in:
(i) the SOC 2010 occupation code “6145 Care
workers and home carers” or “6146 Senior care
workers”, under the Rules in force before 11
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-worker

Page 46 of 56

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:18 pm

March 2024; or
(ii) a SOC 2020 occupation code listed in Table
1a, Table 2aa, Table 2a or Table 3a (or an
equivalent SOC 2010 occupation code listed in
any of those tables), other than “6135 Care
workers and home carers” or “6136 Senior care
workers”, under the Rules in force before 22 July
2025; or
(iii) the SOC 2020 occupation code “3314 Prison
service officers (below principal officer)” and the
application is for permission to stay;
and
(b) since the grant of entry clearance or permission
in (a), P has continuously had permission as a
Skilled Worker, sponsored in one or more of these
SOC 2010 occupation codes or SOC 2020
occupation codes (except that where the Exceptions
for overstayers section of Part Suitability applies,
that period of overstaying will be disregarded).
SW 29.2. The requirements of Appendix Relationship
with Partner must be met.
SW 29.3. DELETED
SW 29.4. DELETED
Relationship requirement for a dependent child of a
Skilled Worker
SW 30.1. DELETED.
SW 30.2 DELETED.
SW 30.3. DELETED
Care requirement for a dependent child of a Skilled
Worker
SW 31.1. DELETED.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-worker

Page 47 of 56

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:18 pm

Age requirement for a dependent child of a Skilled
Worker
SW 32.1. DELETED.
SW 32.2. DELETED.
Requirements for a dependent child of a Skilled
Worker
SW 32A.1. Subject to SW 32A.2, the applicant must
meet the following requirements for a dependent child in
Appendix Children:
(a) relationship requirement: entry clearance and
permission to stay; and
(b) care requirement; and
(c) age and independent life requirement.
SW 32A.2. In Appendix Children, where CHI 3.1 (a) or
(b) refer to the applicant applying as the child of a
person (P), P must be a Skilled Worker sponsored for a
job in Table 1, Table 2 or Table 3 of Appendix Skilled
Occupations, unless:
(a) P was (or is being) granted entry clearance or
permission as a Skilled Worker, sponsored in:
(i) the SOC 2010 occupation code “6145 Care
workers and home carers” or “6146 Senior care
workers”, under the Rules in force before 11
March 2024; or
(ii) a SOC 2020 occupation code listed in Table
1a, Table 2aa, Table 2a or Table 3a (or an
equivalent SOC 2010 occupation code listed in
any of those tables), other than “6135 Care
workers and home carers” or “6136 Senior care
workers”, under the Rules in force before 22 July
2025; or
(iii) the SOC 2020 occupation code “3314 Prison
service officers (below principal officer)” and the
application is for permission to stay;
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-worker

Page 48 of 56

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:18 pm

and since that grant of entry clearance or
permission, P has continuously had permission
as a Skilled Worker, sponsored in one or more of
these SOC 2010 occupation codes or SOC 2020
occupation codes (except that where the
Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will
be disregarded); or
(b) the applicant was born in the UK; or
(c) P is the sole surviving parent or has sole
responsibility for the applicant and this is an
application for permission to stay; or
(d) P has joint responsibility for the applicant with
another Skilled Worker who is also sponsored for a
job in one of the occupation codes referred to in (a)
and this is an application for permission to stay.
Financial requirement for a dependent partner or
dependent child of a Skilled Worker
SW 33.1. If the applicant is applying for permission to
stay and has been living in the UK with permission for
12 months or longer on the date of application, they will
meet the financial requirement and do not need to show
funds.
SW 33.2. If the applicant is applying for entry clearance,
or has been in the UK for less than 12 months on the
date of application, either:
(a) funds of at least the amount required in SW 33.3
must be held collectively by one or more of the
following:
i) the applicant; and
ii) the Skilled Worker (P); and
iii) if the applicant is applying as a dependent
child, their parent who is lawfully present in the
UK or being granted entry clearance, or
permission to stay, at the same time;
or
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-worker

Page 49 of 56

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:18 pm

(b) the Skilled Worker’s A-rated sponsor must certify
that they will, if necessary, maintain and
accommodate the dependent partner and/or any
dependent child as well as the Skilled Worker, up to
the end of the first month of each of their grants of
permission, to at least the amounts required in SW
33.3.
SW 33.3. The funds required are:
(a) £285 for a dependent partner in the UK, or
applying for entry clearance; and
(b) £315 for the first dependent child in the UK, or
applying for entry clearance; and
(c) £200 for any other dependent child in the UK, or
applying for entry clearance.
SW 33.4. If SW 33.2.(a) applies, the funds held for the
applicant must be held in addition to any funds required
for the Skilled Worker to meet the financial requirement
and any other dependants in the UK or applying at the
same time.
SW 33.5. If SW 33.2.(a) applies, the funds must have
been held for a 28-day period and as specified in
Appendix Finance.
Criminal record certificate requirement for a
dependent partner of a Skilled Worker
SW 34.1. Where a Skilled Worker is being sponsored
for a job in an SOC 2020 occupation code listed in SW
16.1, an applicant applying for entry clearance as the
partner of the Skilled Worker must provide a criminal
record certificate from the relevant authority in any
country in which they have been present for 12 months
or more (whether continuously or in total) in the 10
years before the date of application, and while aged 18
or over.
SW 34.2. The requirement in SW 34.1. does not apply if
the applicant provides a satisfactory explanation why it
is not reasonably practicable for them to obtain a
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-worker

Page 50 of 56

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:18 pm

criminal record certificate from any or all of the relevant
authorities.
Decision on an application as a dependent partner
or dependent child of a Skilled Worker
SW 35.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all the
suitability and eligibility requirements for a dependent
partner or dependent child of a Skilled Worker are met,
the application will be granted, otherwise the application
will be refused.
SW 35.2. If the application is refused, the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.
Period of grant for a dependent partner or
dependent child of a Skilled Worker
SW 36.1. A partner will be granted:
(a) permission which ends on the same date as their
partner’s permission as a Skilled Worker; or
(b) 3 years’ permission if the Skilled Worker was (or
is being) granted settlement as a Skilled Worker.
SW 36.2. A child will be granted permission which ends
on the same date as whichever of their parents’
permission ends first, unless both parents have (or are
being granted) settlement or British Citizenship, in which
case the child will be granted permission for 3 years.
Conditions of grant for a dependent partner or
dependent child of a Skilled Worker
SW 36.3. The grant will be subject to all the following
conditions:
(a) no access to public funds; and
(b) work (including self-employment and voluntary
work) is permitted, except as a professional
sportsperson (including as a sports coach); and
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-worker

Page 51 of 56

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:18 pm

(c) study is permitted, subject to the ATAS condition
in Appendix ATAS, if the applicant is over the age of
18.
(d) DELETED

Settlement as a dependent partner or
dependent child of a Skilled Worker
Validity requirements for settlement as a dependent
partner or dependent child of a Skilled Worker
SW 37.1. A person applying for settlement as a
dependent partner or dependent child of a Skilled
Worker must apply online on the gov.uk website on the
specified form, “Settle in the UK in various immigration
categories: form SET(O)”.
SW 37.2. An application for settlement as a partner or
child of a person on the Skilled Worker route must meet
all the following requirements:
(a) any fee must have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided either a
passport or other travel document which
satisfactorily establishes their identity and
nationality; and
(d) the applicant must be in the UK on the date of
application; and
(e) the applicant must be applying as a partner or
child of a person (P) who:
(i) has made a valid application for settlement in
the UK on the Skilled Worker route and that
application has not been decided; or
(ii) is settled or has become a British citizen,
provided that P had permission on the Skilled
Worker route when they settled and the applicant
either had permission as their partner or child at
that time, or the applicant is applying as a child
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-worker

Page 52 of 56

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:18 pm

of P and the applicant was born in the UK before
P settled.
SW 37.3. An application which does not meet the
validity requirements for settlement as a partner or child
of a Skilled Worker may be rejected as invalid and not
considered.
Suitability requirements for settlement as a
dependent partner or dependent child of a Skilled
Worker
SW 38.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
SW 38.2. The applicant must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.
Eligibility requirements for settlement as a
dependent partner or dependent child of a Skilled
Worker
Relationship requirement for settlement for a
dependent partner or dependent child of a Skilled
Worker
SW 39.1. The applicant must be the partner or child of a
person (P) where one of the following applies:
(a) P is, at the same time, being granted settlement
as a Skilled Worker; or
(b) P is settled in the UK or has become a British
citizen, providing P had permission as a Skilled
Worker when they settled and the applicant either:
i) had permission as P’s partner or child at that
time; or
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-worker

Page 53 of 56

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:18 pm

ii) is applying as a child of P, and was born in the
UK before P settled.
SW 39.2. The applicant must either:
(a) have last been granted permission as a
dependent partner or dependent child of the person
(P) in SW 39.1; or
(b) have been born in the UK and be applying as a
child of the person (P) in SW 39.1.
SW 39.3. If applying as a partner, the requirements of
Appendix Relationship with Partner must be met.
SW 39.4. If applying as a child, the applicant must meet
the relationship requirement for settlement in Appendix
Children.
Care requirement for settlement as a dependent
child of a Skilled Worker
SW 40.1. DELETED.
Age requirement for settlement as a dependent
child of a Skilled Worker
SW 41.1. DELETED.
SW 41.2. DELETED.
Requirements for settlement as a dependent child of
a Skilled Worker
SW 41A.1. The applicant must meet the following
requirements for a dependent child in Appendix
Children:
(a) care requirement; and
(b) age and independent life requirement.
Qualifying period requirement for settlement as a
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-worker

Page 54 of 56

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:18 pm

dependent partner of a Skilled Worker
SW 42.1. The applicant must have spent a continuous
period of 5 years in the UK with permission as a
dependent partner of the person (P) in SW 39.1.
Continuous residence requirement for settlement as
a dependent partner of a Skilled Worker
SW 43.1. The applicant must meet the continuous
residence requirement as set out in Appendix
Continuous Residence during the period in SW 42.1.
English language requirement for settlement as a
dependent partner or dependent child of a Skilled
Worker
SW 44.1. Unless an exemption applies, the applicant
must:
(a) Where the date of application is before 26 March
2027, the applicant must, unless an exemption
applies, show English language ability on the
Common European Framework of Reference for
Languages in speaking and listening to at least level
B1; or
(b) Where the date of application is on or after 26
March 2027, the applicant must, unless an
exemption applies, show English language ability on
the Common European Framework of Reference for
Languages in speaking and listening to at least level
B2.
SW 44.2. The applicant must show they meet the
English language requirement as specified in Appendix
English Language.
Knowledge of life in the UK requirement for
settlement as a dependent partner or dependent
child of a Skilled Worker
SW 45.1. If the applicant is aged 18 or over on the date
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-worker

Page 55 of 56

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Skilled Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:18 pm

of application, they must meet the knowledge of Life in
the UK requirement as set out in Appendix KOL UK.
Decision on an application for settlement as a
dependent partner or dependent child of a Skilled
Worker
SW 46.1. If the decision maker is satisfied all the
suitability and eligibility requirements are met for
settlement as a dependent partner or dependent child of
a Skilled Worker, the application will be granted,
otherwise the application will be refused.
SW 46.2. If the application is refused the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-skilled-worker

© Crown copyright

Page 56 of 56

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix SN: Service
of notices
Service of notices

Service of Notices
Introduction
Notices of appealable immigration decisions are served
under the Immigration (Notices) Regulations 2003.
Notices of non-appealable immigration decisions which
grant or refuse leave to remain, vary leave to remain or
refuse to vary leave to remain are served under the
Immigration (Leave to Enter and Remain) Order 2000.
Notices falling within paragraph SN1.2 of this Appendix
to the Immigration Rules are to be served in accordance
with this Appendix.
Definitions

SN1.1 For the purpose of this Appendix the following
definitions apply:

Administrative
review

as defined in Appendix AR or
Appendix AR (EU).

business day

any day other than a Saturday, a
Sunday, Christmas Day, Good
Friday or a day which is a bank
holiday under the Banking and
Financial Dealings Act 1971 in the
part of the United Kingdom to which
the notice is sent.

decisionmaker

(a) the Secretary of State; (b) an
immigration officer; (c) an entry
clearance officer;

representative

a person who appears to the
decisionmaker: (a) to be the
representative of a person referred
to in paragraph SN1.2 below; and
(b) not to be prohibited from acting
as a representative by section 84 of
the 1999 Act.

Service of notices
SN1.2 A notice in writing:
(a) that an application for entry clearance, leave to
enter or leave to remain in the United Kingdom is
invalid;
(b) that an application for entry clearance, leave to
enter or leave to remain in the United Kingdom is
void;
(c) that an application for administrative review is
invalid; or
(d) notifying a person of the outcome of an
administrative review application,
may be given to the person affected as follows.

SN1.3 The notice may be:
(a) given by hand;
(b) sent by fax;
(c) sent by postal service to a postal address
provided for correspondence by the person or the
person’s representative;
(d) sent electronically to an e-mail address provided
for correspondence by the person or the person’s
representative;
(e) sent by document exchange to a document
exchange number or address; or
(f) sent by courier.
SN1.4 Where no postal or e-mail address for
correspondence has been provided, the notice may be
sent:
(a) by postal service to:
(i) the last-known or usual place of abode, place
of study or place of business of the person; or
(ii) the last-known or usual place of business of
the person’s representative; or
(b) electronically to:
(i) the last-known e-mail address for the person
(including at the person’s last-known place of
study or place of business); or
(ii) the last-known e-mail address of the person’s
representative.
SN1.5 For the purposes of paragraphs SN1.3 or SN1.4,
a postal address outside the UK is not a postal address
for correspondence where the person affected by the
notice is in the UK.
SN1.6 Where it is not possible to give notice in
accordance with paragraphs SN1.3 and SN1.4 or where
an attempt to do so has failed, and the decision-maker
records the reason for this and places the notice on file,
the notice shall be deemed to have been given on the
day that it is placed on file.
SN1.7 Where a notice is deemed to have been given in
accordance with paragraph SN1.6 and subsequently the

person is located, the person shall as soon as is
practicable be given a copy of the notice and details of
when and how it was given.
SN1.8 A notice given under this appendix may, in the
case of a person who is under 18 years of age and does
not have a representative, be given to the parent,
guardian or another adult who for the time being takes
responsibility for the child.
Presumptions about date of receipt of notice
SN1.9 Where a notice is sent in accordance with
paragraphs SN1.2 to SN1.4, it shall be deemed to have
been given to the person affected, unless the contrary is
proved:
(a) where the notice is sent by postal service:
(i) on the second day after it was sent by postal
service in which delivery or receipt is recorded if
sent to a place within the United Kingdom;
(ii) on the 28th day after it was posted if sent to a
place outside the United Kingdom;
(b) where the notice is sent by fax, e-mail, document
exchange or courier, on the day it was sent.
SN1.10 For the purposes of paragraph SN1.9(a) the
period is to be calculated excluding the day on which
the notice is posted.
SN1.11For the purposes of paragraph SN1.9(a)(i) the
period is to be calculated excluding any day which is not
a business day.

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

© Crown copyright

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Start-up - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix Start-up
The Start-up route is for a person seeking
to establish a business in the UK for the
first time. From 13 April 2023 this route is
only available to those who hold a valid
Start-up endorsement issued before the 13
April 2023. From 13 July 2023 the Start-up
route will be closed to all new applications.
The person must have an innovative, viable and
scalable business idea which is supported by an
endorsing body approved by the Home Office.
A person on the Start-up route can bring a dependent
partner and dependent children to the UK.
Start-up is not a route to settlement. A person may be
eligible to progress from Start-up to the Innovator route,
which is a route to settlement.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-start-up

Page 1 of 14

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Start-up - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

which is a route to settlement.

Validity requirements for Start-up route
SU 1.1. A person applying for entry clearance or
permission to stay on the Start-up route must apply
online on the gov.uk website on the specified form as
follows:
Applicant

Specified form

EEA national
with a chipped
passport

Either:
• Start-up or Innovator using the UK
Immigration: ID Check app (when
available); or
• the forms listed below for applicants
outside or inside the UK (as relevant)

Applicants
outside the UK

Start-up or Innovator visa

Applicants
inside the UK

Start-up or Innovator permission to
stay

SU 1.2. An application for entry clearance or permission
to stay on the Start-up route must meet all the following
requirements:
(a) any fee and Immigration Health Charge must
have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided any required
biometrics; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other travel document which satisfactorily
establishes their identity and nationality; and
(d) the applicant must have been issued with an
endorsement letter by an endorsing body dated no
more than 3 months before the date of application,
and issued before the 13 April 2023, and that
endorsement must not have been withdrawn.
SU 1.3. The applicant must be aged 18 or over on the
date of application.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-start-up

Page 2 of 14

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Start-up - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

date of application.
SU 1.4. If the applicant has in the last 12 months before
the date of application received an award from a
Government or international scholarship agency
covering both fees and living costs for study in the UK,
they must provide written consent to the application
from that Government or agency.
SU 1.5. A person applying for permission to stay must
be in the UK and must not have, or have last been
granted, permission:
(a) as a Visitor; or
(b) as a Short-term Student; or
(c) as a Parent of a Child Student; or
(d) as a Seasonal Worker; or
(e) as a domestic worker in a private household; or
(f) outside the Immigration Rules.
SU 1.6. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for the Start-up route may be
rejected as invalid and not considered.

Suitability requirements for the Start-up
route
SU 2.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under Part
Suitability.
SU 2.2. If applying for permission to stay the applicant
must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.

Eligibility requirements for the Start-up
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-start-up

Page 3 of 14

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Start-up - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

Eligibility requirements for the Start-up
route
Entry requirements for the Start-up route
SU 3.1. A person seeking to come to the UK on the
Start-up route must apply for and obtain entry clearance
on the Start-up route before they arrive in the UK.
SU 3.2. A person applying for entry clearance on the
Start-up route must, if Appendix Tuberculosis applies,
provide a valid medical certificate confirming that they
have undergone screening for active pulmonary
tuberculosis and that this tuberculosis is not present in
them.

Points requirement for Start-up
SU 4.1. The applicant must be awarded a total of 70
points from the table below.
Requirement (mandatory)

Points
available

Business is innovative, viable and
scalable.

25

The applicant has not previously
established a business in the UK

25

English Language at level B2

10

Financial requirement

10

Total number of points required

70

Innovative, viable and scalable business
requirement for Start-up route
SU 5.1. An applicant will meet the innovative, viable and
scalable business venture requirement if all the
following requirements are met:
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-start-up

Page 4 of 14

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Start-up - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

following requirements are met:
(a) the applicant has a genuine, original business
plan that meets new or existing market needs and/or
creates a competitive advantage; and
(b) the applicant’s business plan is realistic and
achievable based on the applicant’s available
resources; and
(c) the applicant has, or is actively developing, the
necessary skills, knowledge, experience and market
awareness to successfully run the business; and
(d) there is evidence of structured planning and of
potential for job creation and growth into national
markets.

No other established business in the UK
requirement for Start-up route
SU 6.1. The applicant must not have previously
established any business in the UK which commenced
trading, unless this business commenced trading during
the applicant’s last period of permission and that
permission was for any of the following routes:
(a) Start-up; or
(b) Tier 1 (Graduate Entrepreneur); or
(c) Student on the doctorate extension scheme.

Genuine Start-up requirement
SU 7.1. The applicant must be a genuine Start-up
applicant.

Financial requirement for the Start-up
route
SU 8.1. If the applicant is applying for permission to stay
and has been living in the UK with permission for 12
months or more on the date of application, they will
meet the financial requirement and do not need to show
funds.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-start-up

Page 5 of 14

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Start-up - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

funds.
SU 8.2. If an applicant is applying for entry clearance or
has been in the UK for less than 12 months at the date
of application, they must have funds of at least £1,270.
SU 8.3. The applicant must show that they have held
the required level of funds for a 28 day period and as
set out in Appendix Finance unless their endorsing body
confirms they have been awarded funding of at least the
amount in SU 8.2.

English language requirement for the
Start-up route
SU 9.1. The applicant must show English language
ability on the Common European Framework of
Reference for Languages in all 4 components (reading,
writing, speaking and listening) of at least level B2.
SU 9.2. The applicant must show they meet the English
language requirement as specified in Appendix English
Language.

Endorsement requirement for the Startup route
SU 10.1. The applicant must provide a letter from their
endorsing body which includes all the following
information:
(a) the name of the endorsing body; and
(b) the endorsement reference number; and
(c) the name, telephone number, email and
workplace address of a person at the endorsing
body who will verify the contents of the letter to the
Home Office if requested; and
(d) the date of endorsement; and
(e) the applicant’s name, date of birth, nationality
and passport or other travel document number; and
(f) a short description of the applicant’s business
venture and the main products or services it will
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-start-up

Page 6 of 14

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Start-up - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

venture and the main products or services it will
provide to its customers; and
(g) confirmation that in the view of the endorsing
body the applicant’s business is innovative, viable
and scalable as set out at SU 5.1.; and
(h) confirmation that the endorsing body is satisfied
that the applicant will spend the majority of their
working time in the UK on developing their business
venture; and
(i) confirmation that the endorsing body is satisfied
the applicant is either the sole founder of the
business or an instrumental member of the founding
team; and
(j) confirmation the endorsing body is satisfied that
the applicant has created and is relying on their own
business plan.

Decision on the Start-up route
SU 11.1. If the decision- maker is satisfied that all the
suitability and eligibility requirements are met for the
Start-up route, the application will be granted, otherwise
the application will be refused.
SU 11.2. If the application is refused the person can
apply for Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.

Conditions and period of grant on the
Start-up route
SU 12.1. The grant will be subject to all the following
conditions:
(a) no access to public funds; and
(b) work (including self-employment and voluntary
work) permitted except for employment as a
professional sportsperson, including as a sports
coach; and
(c) study is permitted, subject to the ATAS condition
in Appendix ATAS.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-start-up

Page 7 of 14

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Start-up - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

in Appendix ATAS.
(d) DELETED
SU 12.2. The applicant will be granted permission for a
maximum period of 2 years, and a person must not be
granted further permission which would result in them
spending more than 2 years with permission on the
Start-up route, or a combination of the Start-up route
and the Tier 1 (Graduate Entrepreneur) route.

Dependants on the Start-up route
Validity requirements for a dependent partner or
dependent child on the Start-up route
SU 13.1. An application as a partner or child on the
Start-up route must be made online on the gov.uk
website on the specified form as follows:
Applicant

Specified form

EEA
national
with a
chipped
passport

Either (as applicable):
• Dependant partner or dependant child
using the UK Immigration: ID Check app;
or
• the forms listed below for dependant
applicants outside or inside the UK as
relevant.

Applicants
outside
the UK

Dependant partner visa
Dependant child visa

Applicants
inside the
UK

If the dependant is applying at the same
time as the Start-Up route applicant, they
can be included in the form “Start-Up or
Innovator permission to stay” where the
form allows dependants to be added.
Otherwise:
- Dependant partner
- Dependant child

SU 13.2. An application for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a partner or child of a person on
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-start-up

Page 8 of 14

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Start-up - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

permission to stay as a partner or child of a person on
the Start-up route must meet all the following
requirements:
(a) any fee and Immigration Health Charge must
have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided any required
biometrics; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other travel document which satisfactorily
establishes their identity and nationality; and
(d) the applicant must be applying as partner or child
of a person (P) who:
(i) has made a valid application for entry
clearance or permission to stay on the Start-up
not been decided; or
(ii) has entry clearance or permission to stay on
the Start-up route; or
(iii) is settled or has become a British citizen,
providing that P had permission on the Start-up
route when they settled and the applicant either
had permission as their partner or child at that
time, or the applicant is applying as a child of P
and the applicant was born in the UK before P
settled.
SU 13.3. A person applying as a dependent partner
must be aged 18 or over on the date of application.
SU 13.4. DELETED.
SU 13.5. A person applying for permission to stay must
be in the UK and must not have, or have last been
granted, permission:
(a) as a Visitor; or
(b) as a Short-term Student; or
(c) as a Parent of a Child Student; or
(d) as a Seasonal Worker; or
(e) as a domestic worker in a private household; or
(f)outside the Immigration Rules.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-start-up

Page 9 of 14

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Start-up - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

SU 13.6. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements as a partner or child on the Startup route may be rejected as invalid and not considered.
Suitability requirements for a dependent partner or
dependent child on the Start-up route
SU 14.1. The suitability requirements for a partner or
child on the Start-up route are that they must not fall for
refusal under Part Suitability.
SU 14.2. If applying for permission to stay the applicant
must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.

Eligibility requirements for a dependent
partner and dependent child on the
Start-up route
Entry requirement for a dependent partner and
dependent child on the Start-up route
SU 15.1. A person seeking to come to the UK as a
partner or child must apply for and obtain entry
clearance as a partner or child before they arrive in the
UK.
SU 15.2. A person applying for entry clearance as a
partner or child on the Start-up route must, if Appendix
Tuberculosis applies, provide a valid medical certificate
confirming that they have undergone screening for
active pulmonary tuberculosis and that this tuberculosis
is not present in them.

Relationship requirements for a dependent partner
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-start-up

Page 10 of 14

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Start-up - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

Relationship requirements for a dependent partner
on the Start-up route
SU 16.1. The applicant must be the partner of a person
(P) and one of the following must apply:
(a) P has permission on the Start-up route; or
(b) P is, at the same time, applying for (and is
granted) permission on the Start-up route.
SU 16.2. The applicant must show that the relationship
meets the relationship requirements as specified in
Appendix Relationship with Partner.
SU 16.3. DELETED.
SU 16.4. DELETED.
Relationship requirement for a dependent child on
the Start-up route
SU 17.1. DELETED.
SU 17.2. DELETED.
Care requirement for a dependent child on the Startup route
SU 18.1. DELETED.
Age requirement for a dependent child on the Startup route
SU 19.1. DELETED.
SU 19.2. DELETED.
Requirements for a dependent child on the Start-up
route
SU 19A.1. The applicant must meet the following
requirements for a dependent child in Appendix
Children:
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-start-up

Page 11 of 14

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Start-up - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

Children:
(a) relationship requirement: entry clearance and
permission to stay; and
(b) care requirement; and
(c) age and independent life requirement.
Financial requirement for a dependent partner or
dependent child on the Start-up route
SU 20.1. If the applicant is applying for permission to
stay and has been living in the UK with permission for
12 months or longer on the date of application, they will
meet the financial requirement and do not need to show
funds.
SU 20.2. If the applicant is applying for entry clearance,
or has been in the UK for less than 12 months on the
date of application, funds of at least the amount required
in SU 20.2A must be held collectively by one or more of
the following:
(a) the applicant; and
(b) the person on the Start-up route (P); and
(c) if the applicant is applying as a dependent child,
their parent who is lawfully present in the UK or
being granted entry clearance, or permission to stay,
at the same time.
SU 20.2A. The funds required are:
(a) £285 for a dependent partner in the UK, or
applying for entry clearance; and
(b) £315 for the first dependent child in the UK, or
applying for entry clearance; and
(c) £200 for any other dependent child in the UK, or
applying for entry clearance.
SU 20.3. The funds must be in addition to any funds
required by the Start-up applicant to meet the financial
requirement and for any dependants in the UK or
applying at the same time.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-start-up

Page 12 of 14

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Start-up - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

SU 20.4. The required level of funds must have been
held for a 28-day period and as set out in Appendix
Finance.
Decision on application for a dependent partner and
dependent child on the Start-up route
SU 21.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all the
suitability and eligibility requirements are met for a
dependent partner or dependent child on the Start-up
route the application will be granted, otherwise the
application will be refused.
SU 21.2. If the application is refused the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.
Period and conditions of grant for a dependent
partner and dependent child on the Start-up route
SU 22.1. A partner will be granted permission which
ends on the same date as their partner’s permission on
the Start-up route
SU 22.2. A child will be granted permission which ends
on the same date as whichever of their parents’
permission ends first.
SU 22.3. The grant will be subject to all the following
conditions: *(a) no access to public funds; and
(b) work (including self-employment and voluntary
work) permitted; except for employment as a
professional sportsperson, including as a sports
coach; and
(c) study is permitted, subject to the ATAs condition
in Appendix ATAS.
(d) DELETED

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-start-up

Page 13 of 14

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Start-up - Guidance - GOV.UK

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-start-up

07/05/2026, 11:45 am

© Crown copyright

Page 14 of 14

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Statelessness - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:08 pm

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix Statelessness
This route is for a person in the UK who
has no nationality and so is stateless, and
is unable to become, or obtain a status
leading to becoming, a permanent resident
of another country.
A partner or dependent child of a Stateless person can
apply to stay in the UK under Appendix Statelessness if
they formed part of the family unit before the date a
Stateless person was granted permission to stay. There
is a separate route under Appendix FM: family members
for a partner or dependent child who formed part of the
family unit after the Stateless person was granted
permission and is seeking to join a sponsor who has
permission to stay as a Stateless person, is settled or a
British Citizen in the UK on the basis of their family life.
A Stateless person or their partner or dependent child
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-statelessness

Page 1 of 12

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Statelessness - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:08 pm

previously granted permission under Part 14: stateless
persons applying on or after 11 November 2025 will be
considered under this route.
The statelessness route is a route to settlement.

Validity requirements for a Stateless
person
S 1.1. A person applying for permission to stay as a
Stateless person must apply online on the gov.uk
website on the specified form “Further Leave to Remain
– Stateless person”.
S 1.2. An application for permission to stay as a
Stateless person must meet all the following validity
requirements:
(a) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(b) the applicant must have satisfactorily established
their identity; and
(c) the applicant must be in the UK on the date of
application.
S 1.3. An application which does not meet all the validity
requirements for a Stateless person may be rejected as
invalid and not considered.

Suitability requirements for a Stateless
person
S 2.1. The decision maker must be satisfied that the
applicant should not be refused under Part Suitability.

Eligibility requirements for a Stateless
person
S 3.1. The applicant must be a person who is not
considered as a national by any state under the
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-statelessness

Page 2 of 12

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Statelessness - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:08 pm

operation of its law, as set out in Article 1(1) of the 1954
Statelessness Convention.
S 3.2. The applicant must have taken all reasonable
steps, but nonetheless failed to:
(a) acquire, or re-acquire, nationality with the
competent authorities of any relevant countries; and
(b) establish a right to admission as a permanent
resident, or a status leading to permanent residence,
in any relevant countries.
S 3.3. If the applicant is a child born in the UK, their
parent or legal guardian must have taken all reasonable
steps to register the child’s birth with the competent
authorities and have been unsuccessful.
S 3.4. The applicant must have obtained and submitted
all reasonably available evidence to show they meet the
requirements in S 3.1. and S 3.2 and, if the applicant is
a child, S 3.3.
Decision on an application as a Stateless person
S 4.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all the
suitability and relevant eligibility requirements are met
for a Stateless person the application will be granted,
otherwise the application will be refused.
S 4.2. If the application is refused, the person can apply
for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.
Period of grant for a Stateless person
S 5.1. The applicant will be granted permission to stay
for 5 years.
Conditions of grant for a Stateless person
S 5.2. The grant will be subject to the following
conditions:
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-statelessness

Page 3 of 12

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Statelessness - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:08 pm

(a) work (including self-employment and voluntary
work) permitted; and
(b) study is permitted, subject to the ATAS condition
in Appendix ATAS; and
(c) access to public funds.

Settlement as a Stateless person
Validity requirements for settlement as a Stateless
person
S 6.1. A person applying for settlement as a Stateless
person must apply online on the gov.uk website on the
specified form “Further Leave to Remain - Stateless
person”.
S 6.2. An application for settlement must meet all the
following validity requirements:
(a) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(b) the applicant must satisfactorily establish their
identity; and
(c) the applicant must be in the UK on the date of
application.
S 6.3. The applicant must have, or have last been
granted, permission as a Stateless person.
S 6.4. An application which does not meet the validity
requirements for settlement as a Stateless person may
be rejected as invalid and not considered.
Suitability requirements for settlement as a
Stateless person
S 7.1. The decision maker must be satisfied that the
applicant should not be refused under Part Suitability.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-statelessness

Page 4 of 12

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Statelessness - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:08 pm

Eligibility requirements for settlement as
a Stateless person
Qualifying period requirement for settlement as a
Stateless person
S 8.1. The applicant must have spent a continuous
period of 5 years in the UK with permission as a
Stateless person.
S 8.2. If the applicant has not spent a period of 5 years
in the UK with permission as a Stateless person, the 5
year qualifying period can be met by also counting time
on any other route that includes rules allowing a person
to qualify for settlement, if the applicant has had
permission as a Stateless person for at least one year
immediately before the date of application.
Continuing status requirement for settlement as a
Stateless person
S 9.1. The applicant must continue to meet the eligibility
requirements for a permission to stay as a Stateless
person at S 3.1. to S 3.4, including during the period
when they have had permission to stay as a Stateless
person.
Decision on an application for settlement as a
Stateless person
S 10.1. If the decision maker is satisfied all the suitability
and relevant eligibility requirements for settlement as a
Stateless person are met, the applicant will be granted
settlement.
S 10.2. If the decision maker is not satisfied that all the
suitability and eligibility requirements for settlement as a
Stateless person are met, but is satisfied that the
applicant meets the requirements for permission to stay
as a Stateless person, the applicant will be granted a
further period of permission to stay as a Stateless
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-statelessness

Page 5 of 12

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Statelessness - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:08 pm

person for 5 years.
S 10.3. If the decision maker is not satisfied that the
applicant meets all the suitability and eligibility
requirements for settlement or permission to stay as a
Stateless person, the application for settlement will be
refused.
S 10.4. If the application for settlement is refused, the
person can apply for an Administrative Review under
Appendix AR: Administrative Review.

Partner or child of a Stateless person
Validity requirements for a partner or child of a
Stateless person
S 11.1. A person applying for entry clearance to join as
a partner or child of a Stateless person in the UK must
do so on the GOV.UK website on the specified form:
“Child of a close relative with protection status in the UK
or child or partner of a person who is officially stateless
and in the UK with permission to stay”.
S 11.2. A person applying in the UK for permission to
stay as a partner or child of a Stateless person in the
UK must do so on the GOV.UK website on the specified
form: “Further Leave to Remain – Stateless person”.
S 11.3. An application as a partner or child of a
Stateless person under Appendix Statelessness must
meet the following validity requirements:
(a) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(b) the applicant must be applying as a partner or
child of a person (P) on the statelessness route who:
(i) has made a valid application for permission to
stay in the UK on the Appendix Statelessness
route that has not been decided; or
(ii) has permission to stay in the UK on the
statelessness route; or
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-statelessness

Page 6 of 12

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Statelessness - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:08 pm

(iii) is settled or has become a British Citizen,
providing P had permission to stay on the
statelessness route when they settled and the
applicant either had permission as their partner
or child at that time, or the applicant is applying
as a child of P and the applicant was born in the
UK before P settled.
S 11.4. An application which does not meet the validity
requirements for a partner or child of a Stateless person
may be rejected as invalid and not considered.
Suitability requirements for a partner or child of a
Stateless person
S 12.1. The decision maker must be satisfied that the
applicant should not be refused under Part Suitability.
Eligibility requirements for a partner or child of a
Stateless person
S 13.1. A person seeking to come to the UK as a
partner or child of a Stateless person must apply for and
obtain entry clearance as a partner or child of a
Stateless person before they arrive in the UK
S 13.2. A person applying for entry clearance as a
partner or child of a Stateless person must, if Appendix
Tuberculosis applies, provide a valid medical certificate
confirming that they have undergone screening for
active pulmonary tuberculosis and that this tuberculosis
is not present in them.
S 13.3. The applicant must have satisfactorily
established their identity and nationality.
Relationship requirement for a partner of a Stateless
person
S 14.1. The applicant must have formed part of the
family unit before the Stateless person was granted
permission as a Stateless person.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-statelessness

Page 7 of 12

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Statelessness - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:08 pm

S 14.2. The applicant must be the partner of a Person
(P) where one of the following applies:
(a) P has permission to stay as a Stateless person;
or
(b) P is, at the same time, applying for (and is
granted) permission to stay as a Stateless person;
or
(c) P is settled or has become a British Citizen,
providing P had permission to stay on the
statelessness route when they settled, and the
applicant had permission as P’s partner at that time.
S 14.3. The applicant must meet the requirements of
Appendix Relationship with Partner of these Rules.
Relationship requirement for a child of a Stateless
person
S 15.1. The applicant must meet the following
requirements for a dependent child in Appendix
Children:
(a) age requirement;
(b) independent life requirement;
(c) care requirement; and
(d) relationship requirement: Entry Clearance and
Permission to Stay.
S 15.2. The applicant must have been born:
(a) before the Stateless person was granted
permission to stay as a Stateless person; or
(b) after the Stateless person was granted
permission to stay, if the applicant is the child of that
person and their other parent is applying for
permission, or has permission on, the statelessness
route.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-statelessness

Page 8 of 12

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Statelessness - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:08 pm

Decision on an application as a partner
or child of a Stateless person
S 16.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all the
suitability and eligibility requirements for a partner or
child of a Stateless person are met, the application will
be granted, otherwise the application will be refused.
S 16.2. If the application is refused, the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.

Period and conditions of grant for a
partner or child of a Stateless person
S 17.1. A partner or child will be granted permission for
a period which expires at the same time as the
permission granted to the Stateless person.
S 17.2. The grant will be subject to all the following
conditions:
(a) access to public funds; and
(b) work permitted (including self-employment and
voluntary work); and
(c) study permitted, subject to the ATAS condition in
Appendix ATAS.

Settlement as a partner or child of a
Stateless person
Validity requirements for settlement as a partner or
child a Stateless person
S 18.1. A person applying for settlement as a partner or
child of a Stateless person in the UK must apply online
on the gov.uk website on the specified form “Further
Leave to Remain – Stateless Person”.
S 18.2. An application for settlement as a partner or
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-statelessness

Page 9 of 12

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Statelessness - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:08 pm

child of a Stateless person must meet all the following
validity requirements:
(a) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(b) the applicant must satisfactorily establish their
identity and nationality; and
(c) the applicant must be in the UK on the date of
application;
(d) Unless the applicant is a child born in the UK
while their parent had permission on the
statelessness route, the applicant must have, or
have last been granted, permission as a partner or
child of a Stateless person; and the applicant must
be applying as a partner or child of a person (P)
who:
(i) has made a valid application for settlement in
the UK under Appendix Statelessness and that
application has not been decided; or
(ii) is settled or has become a British citizen,
providing that P had permission on the
statelessness route when they settled and the
applicant either had permission as their partner
or child at that time, or the applicant is applying
as a child of P and the applicant was born in the
UK before P settled.
S 18.3. An application which does not meet the validity
requirements as a partner or child of a Stateless person
may be rejected as invalid and not considered.

Suitability requirements for settlement
as a partner or child of a Stateless
person
S 19.1. The decision maker must be satisfied that the
applicant should not be refused under Part Suitability.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-statelessness

Page 10 of 12

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Statelessness - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:08 pm

Eligibility requirements for settlement as
a partner of a Stateless person
S 20.1. The applicant must be the partner of a Person
(P) where one of the following applies:
(a) P has permission to stay as a Stateless person
and is, at the same time as the applicant, being
granted settlement; or
(b) P is settled in the UK or has become a British
citizen, providing P had permission to stay as a
Stateless person when they settled and the
applicant had permission as P’s partner at that time.

Relationship requirements for
settlement as the partner of a Stateless
person
S 21.1. The applicant must meet the requirements of
Appendix Relationship with Partner of these Rules.

Eligibility requirements for settlement as
a child of a Stateless person
S 22.1. The applicant must meet the following
requirements for a dependent child in Appendix
Children:
(a) age requirement;
(b) independent life requirement;
(c) care requirement; and
(d) relationship requirement: settlement.

Decision on an application for
settlement as a partner or child of a
Stateless person
S 23.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that the
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-statelessness

Page 11 of 12

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Statelessness - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:08 pm

applicant meets all the suitability and eligibility
requirements for settlement as a partner or child of a
Stateless person, the applicant will be granted
settlement.
S 23.2. If the decision maker is not satisfied that the
applicant meets all the suitability and eligibility
requirements for settlement as a partner or child of a
Stateless person, but is satisfied that the applicant
continues to qualify as a partner or child of a Stateless
person, the applicant will be granted permission to stay
for at least 30 months.
S 23.3. If the decision maker is not satisfied that the
applicant meets all the suitability and eligibility
requirements for settlement as a partner or child of a
Stateless person, or for permission to stay as a partner
or child of a Stateless person, the application for
settlement will be refused.
S 23.4. If the application is refused, the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-statelessness

© Crown copyright

Page 12 of 12

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules: Appendix Student - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:34 am

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules: Appendix Student
Student route
This route is for a person aged 16 or over who wants to
study with a sponsor on a course of further or higher
education, a pre-sessional English course, a recognised
foundation programme or to take an elected post as a
Student Union Sabbatical Officer.
The register of licensed student sponsors can be found
at: www.gov.uk/government/publications/register-oflicensed-sponsors-students
(https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/register-oflicensed-sponsors-students)

A person who is aged 16 or 17 and wants to study with
a sponsor that is an Independent School on a course at
Regulated Qualifications Framework 3 or Scottish Credit
and Qualifications Framework 6 and above can apply as
either a Student or as a Child Student (see Appendix
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-student

Page 1 of 36

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules: Appendix Student - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:34 am

Child Student).
A person who wants to study a course for 6 months or
less without a student sponsor but with an accredited
provider should apply under Appendix V: Visitor. A
person aged 16 or over who wants to study an English
Language course of 11 months or less without a student
sponsor but with an accredited provider, should apply
under Appendix Short-term Student.
Some Students can bring a dependent partner and
dependent children to the UK, for example if they are
studying at postgraduate level or on a government
sponsored scheme.
The Student route is not a route to settlement.

Validity requirements for a Student
ST 1.1. A person applying for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a Student must apply on the
specified form on the gov.uk website as follows:
(a) for applicants outside the UK applying for entry
clearance, form “Student visa”; or
(b) for applicants in the UK applying for permission
to stay, form “Student”.
ST 1.2. An application for entry clearance or permission
to stay as a Student must meet all the following
requirements:
(a) any fee and Immigration Health Charge must
have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other travel document which satisfactorily
establishes their identity and nationality; and
(d) the applicant must provide a Confirmation of
Acceptance for Studies reference number that was
issued to them no more than 6 months before the
date of application.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-student

Page 2 of 36

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules: Appendix Student - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:34 am

ST 1.3. If the applicant has, in the last 12 months before
the date of application, completed a course of studies in
the UK for which they have been awarded a scholarship
or sponsorship by a Government or international
scholarship agency covering both fees and living costs
for study in the UK, they must provide written consent in
relation to the application from that Government or
agency.
ST 1.4. If applying for permission to stay, the applicant
must be in the UK on the date of application
ST 1.4A. If applying for permission to stay, the applicant
must not have, or have last been granted, permission:
(a) as a Visitor; or
(b) as a Short-term Student; or
(c) as a Parent of a Child Student; or
(d) as a Seasonal Worker; or
(e) as a Domestic Worker in a Private Household; or
(f) outside the Immigration Rules
ST 1.5. The applicant must be at least 16 years old on
the date of application.
ST 1.6. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for a Student may be rejected as
invalid and not considered.

Suitability requirements for a Student
ST 2.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under Part
Suitability.
ST 2.2. If the applicant is applying for permission to
stay, they must not be:
(a) in the UK in breach of immigration laws, except
that where the Exceptions for overstayers section of
Part Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will
be disregarded; or
(b)on immigration bail.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-student

Page 3 of 36

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules: Appendix Student - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:34 am

Eligibility requirements for a Student
Entry requirements for a Student
ST 3.1. A person seeking to come to the UK as a
Student must apply for and obtain entry clearance as a
Student before they arrive in the UK.
ST 3.2. A person applying for entry clearance as a
Student must, if Appendix Tuberculosis applies, provide
a valid medical certificate confirming that they have
undergone screening for active pulmonary tuberculosis
and that this tuberculosis is not present in them.
ST 3.3. A person must not be applying for entry
clearance as a Student as a national or citizen of the
following countries:
(a) Afghanistan; or
(b) Cameroon; or
(c) Myanmar; or
(d) Sudan
Date of application requirement for a Student
ST 4.1. An application for entry clearance must be made
no more than 6 months before the start date of the
course stated on the Confirmation of Acceptance for
Studies.
ST 4.2. An application for permission to stay must be
made no more than 3 months before the start date of
the course on the Confirmation of Acceptance for
Studies.
ST 4.3. An application for permission to stay must be for
study on a course with a start date no more than 28
days after the expiry date of the applicant’s previous
permission.
Genuine Student requirement
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-student

Page 4 of 36

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules: Appendix Student - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:34 am

ST 5.1. The applicant must be a genuine student.
Points requirement for a Student
ST 6.1. The applicant must be awarded all 70 points
from the table below.
Points type

Relevant requirements to be
met

Points

Study (must
meet all)

• Confirmation of Acceptance
for Studies requirement
• Course requirement
• Approved qualification
requirement
• Level of study requirement
• Place of study requirement

50

Financial

Financial requirement

10

Language

Language requirement

10

Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies requirement
ST 7.1. The Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies
must have been issued by a student sponsor whose
licence is still valid on the date on which the application
is decided.
ST 7.2. The Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies
must not have been used in a previous application
which was either granted or refused (but could have
been relied on in a previous application which was
rejected as invalid, made void or withdrawn).
ST 7.3. The student sponsor must not have withdrawn
the offer to the applicant after the date that the
Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies was issued.
ST 7.4. The Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies
must contain the necessary information to confirm all
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-student

Page 5 of 36

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules: Appendix Student - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:34 am

the following requirements are met:
(a) the course requirement; and
(b) the approved qualification requirement; and
(c) the level of study requirement; and
(d) the place of study requirement.
ST 7.5. The Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies
must state the cost of any accommodation provided by
the sponsor and fees (and any payment already made)
so that the financial requirement can be assessed.
ST 7.6. The Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies
must show how the English language requirement has
been met, and where the sponsor has assessed the
applicant’s English language ability, must include the
information in ST 13.3. and ST 13.4.
Course requirement for a Student
ST 8.1. The application must be for a single course of
study that meets the requirements in ST 8.2. unless it is
one of the following:
(a) a combined pre-sessional course which meets
the requirements in ST 15.1. to 15.3.; or
(b) a full-time, salaried, elected executive position as
a Student Union Sabbatical Officer, where the
applicant is either part-way through their studies or
will fill the position in the academic year immediately
after their graduation
ST 8.2. The application must be for a course which is
one of the following:
(a) a full-time course at degree level or above that
leads to an approved qualification; or
(b) a full-time course below degree level involving a
minimum of 15 hours per week of classroom-based
daytime study (08:00 to 18:00, Monday to Friday)
that leads to an approved qualification; or
(c) a full-time course involving a minimum of 15
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-student

Page 6 of 36

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules: Appendix Student - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:34 am

hours per week of classroom-based daytime study
that is a pre-sessional course; or
(d) a part-time course above degree level that leads
to an approved qualification where the Confirmation
of Acceptance for Studies has been issued by a
higher education provider with a track record of
compliance; or
(e) a full-time course at degree level or above that is
recognised by the qualification and language
assessments provider as being equivalent to a UK
higher education course where the Confirmation of
Acceptance for Studies has been assigned by an
overseas higher education institution or a higher
education provider with a track record of
compliance.
ST 8.3. If the course is an Association of Certified
Chartered Accountants (ACCA) qualification or an
ACCA Foundations in Accountancy qualification, the
student sponsor must be an ACCA approved learning
partner – student tuition at either Gold or Platinum level.
ST 8.4. If the Academic Technology Approval Scheme
(ATAS) requirement in Appendix ATAS applies, the
applicant must have a valid ATAS certificate and provide
it with the application.
Approved qualification requirement for a Student
ST 9.1. The course of study, unless it is a pre-sessional
course, must lead to an approved qualification which is
one of the following:
(a) validated by Royal Charter; or
(b) awarded by a UK recognised body; or
(c) covered by a legal agreement between a UK
recognised body and another education provider or
awarding body, which confirms both:
(i) the UK recognised body’s independent
assessment of the level of the student sponsor’s
or awarding body’s programme compared to the
Regulated Qualifications Framework or its
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-student

Page 7 of 36

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules: Appendix Student - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:34 am

equivalents; and
(ii) that the UK recognised body would admit any
student who successfully completes the
education provider’s or the awarding body’s
named course onto a specific or a range of
degree-level courses it provides; or
(d) recognised by one or more recognised bodies
through a formal articulation agreement with the
awarding body; or
(e) in England, Wales and Northern Ireland, is at
Regulated Qualifications Framework level 3 or
above; or in Scotland is accredited at Scottish Credit
and Qualifications Framework level 6 or above; or
(f) an overseas qualification that the qualification and
language assessments provider assesses as valid
and equivalent to Regulated Qualifications
Framework level 3 or above; or
(g) an aviation licence, rating or certificate issued by
the UK’s Civil Aviation Authority.
Level of study requirement for a Student
ST 10.1. If the Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies
has been assigned by a probationary sponsor, the
course must meet one of the following requirements
unless it is a pre-sessional course:
(a) the course will be studied in England, Wales or
Northern Ireland, and the applicant is aged under
18, and the course is at Regulated Qualifications
Framework level 3 or above; or
(b) the course will be studied in England, Wales or
Northern Ireland, and the applicant is aged 18 or
over, and the course is at Regulated Qualifications
Framework level 4 or above; or
(c) the course will be studied in Scotland, and the
applicant is aged under 18, and the course is at
Scottish Credit and Qualifications Framework level 6
or above; or
(d) the course will be studied in Scotland, and the
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-student

Page 8 of 36

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules: Appendix Student - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:34 am

applicant is aged 18 or over and the course is at
Scottish Credit and Qualifications Framework level 7
or above.
ST 10.2. If the Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies
has been assigned by a student sponsor, the course
must meet one of the following requirements:
(a) the course will be studied in England, Wales or
Northern Ireland and it is at Regulated Qualifications
Framework level 3 or above; or
(b) the course will be studied in Scotland and it is at
Scottish Credit and Qualifications Framework level 6
or above; or
(c) the course is a short-term study abroad
programme in the UK as part of the applicant’s
qualification at an overseas higher education
institution outside of the UK, and that qualification is
recognised as being at UK bachelor’s degree level
or above by the qualification and language
assessments provider; or
(d) the course is a pre-sessional course in English
language at level B2 or above of the Common
European Framework of Reference for Languages;
or
(e) DELETED
(f) the course is being delivered under a partnership
between a higher education institution and a
research institute and is accredited at Regulated
Qualifications Framework level 7 or above, or at
Scottish Credit and Qualifications Framework Level
11 or above.
Place of study requirement for a Student
ST 11.1. All study that forms part of the course of study
apart from permitted remote delivery must take place on
the premises of the student sponsor or a partner
institution unless the applicant is on a course-related
work placement, a study abroad programme overseas,
or a pre-sessional course.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-student

Page 9 of 36

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules: Appendix Student - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:34 am

Financial requirement for a Student
ST 12.1. If the applicant is applying for permission to
stay and has been living in the UK with permission for
12 months or more on the date of application, they will
meet the financial requirement and do not need to show
funds.
ST 12.2. If the applicant is applying for entry clearance
or permission to stay and is applying as a Student Union
Sabbatical Officer they will meet the financial
requirement and do not need to show funds.
ST 12.3. If ST 12.2. does not apply, and the applicant is
applying for entry clearance, or is applying for
permission to stay and has been in the UK with
permission for less than 12 months, the applicant must
have the following funds:
(a) Studying in London
Type of
Study

Funds required

Residential
Independent
School

Sufficient funds to pay outstanding fees
(course fees and boarding fees) for one
academic year

All other
cases

Sufficient funds to pay any outstanding
course fees as stated on the
Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies,
and £1529 for each month of the course
(up to a maximum of 9 months)

(b) Studying outside London
Type of
Study

Funds required

Residential
Independent
School

Sufficient funds to pay outstanding fees
(course fees and boarding fees) for one
academic year

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-student

Page 10 of 36

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules: Appendix Student - Guidance - GOV.UK

All other
cases

07/05/2026, 11:34 am

Sufficient funds to pay any outstanding
course fees as stated on the
Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies,
and £1171 for each month of the course
(up to a maximum of 9 months)

If the length of the applicant’s course includes a part of
a month, the time period will be rounded up to the next
full month.
ST 12.4. If the applicant has paid a deposit to the
student sponsor for accommodation arranged by the
sponsor, this deposit (up to a maximum of £1529) can
be offset against the funds required in ST 12.3.
ST 12.5. If the applicant has paid all or part of their
course fees to their student sponsor this must be
confirmed on the Confirmation of Acceptance for
Studies, or the applicant must provide a receipt issued
by the student sponsor confirming the amount of fees
paid.
ST 12.6. The applicant must show that they have held
the required level of funds for a 28-day period and as
specified in Appendix Finance unless the applicant is
relying on a student loan or official financial sponsorship
which meets the requirements of FIN 8.3. in Appendix
Finance
ST.12.7. If the funds held in the applicant’s account on
the date of decision fall substantially below the level of
funds required at ST.12.3, the decision maker must be
satisfied that the spent funds have been used to pay
outstanding course fees, a deposit for accommodation
or other costs associated with the proposed course of
study in the UK
English language requirement for a Student
ST 13.1. An applicant must either:
(a) show English language ability on the Common
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-student

Page 11 of 36

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules: Appendix Student - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:34 am

European Framework of Reference for Languages in
all 4 components (reading, writing, speaking and
listening) of at least:
(i) level B2, where the applicant is studying a
course at UK bachelor’s degree level or above;
or
(ii) level B1, where the applicant is studying a
pre-sessional course or a course below UK
bachelor’s degree level; or
(b) have a GCSE level qualification or above in
Welsh, Scots Gaelic, or Irish language.
ST 13.2. The applicant must show they meet the
English language requirement as specified in Appendix
English Language.
ST 13.3. Where the student sponsor has assessed that
the applicant meets the English language requirement,
they must state this and the method of assessment on
the Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies.
ST 13.4. Where a Secure English Language Test is
required, the name of the test provider, the unique
reference number for the test and the score for each
component tested (reading, writing, listening, speaking)
must be included on the Confirmation of Acceptance for
Studies.
Academic Progress requirement for a Student
ST 14.1. An applicant who has, or previously had,
permission as a Student and is applying for permission
to stay as a Student must have successfully completed
the course of study for which they were last granted
permission as a Student or one of the following applies:
(a) one of the exceptions in ST 14.4.; or
(b) they are applying to progress to a higher level
course as specified in ST 14.3.(a) or (b).; or
(c) they have successfully completed the course of
study for which they were last granted permission as
a Student or the course of study they were allowed
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-student

Page 12 of 36

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules: Appendix Student - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:34 am

to change to without applying for further permission
on the Student route and will now be taking a course
at the same level as specified at ST 14.3(c); or
(d) they have successfully completed the course of
study with their sponsor where the change of course
was allowed without applying for further permission
on the Student route.
ST 14.2. An applicant who has, or previously had,
permission on the Student route and is applying for
permission to stay as a Student must show academic
progress from the previous courses of study unless one
of the exceptions in ST 14.4. applies.
ST 14.3. An applicant will show academic progress if
they are applying for any of the following:
(a) to progress from a bachelor’s to master’s level
course which is part of an integrated master’s
course, where the applicant has been offered a
place on a higher-level course by the student
sponsor after an assessment of their academic
ability; or
(b) to progress from a master’s degree to a PhD
which is part of an integrated master’s and PhD
programme, where the applicant has been offered a
place on a higher-level course by the student
sponsor after an assessment of their academic
ability; or
(c) a course which is above the level of the previous
course of study for which they were last granted
permission unless:
(i) the student sponsor is a higher education
provider with a track record of compliance; and
(ii) the course is at degree level or above; and
(iii) the new course is at the same level as the
previous course of study; and
(iv) the student sponsor confirms that either:
(a) the new course of study is related to the
applicant’s previous course of study
(meaning that it is either connected to the
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-student

Page 13 of 36

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules: Appendix Student - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:34 am

previous course, part of the same subject
group, or involves deeper specialisation); or
(b) the combination of the previous course of
study and the new course of study support
the applicant’s genuine career aspirations.
(c) the applicant has left an integrated
master’s or PhD programme having
successfully completed the course leading to
the award of the lower level qualification
which formed a part of that programme.
ST 14.4. An applicant does not need to show academic
progress where they:
(a) are applying to re-sit examinations or repeat
modules under ST 14.5.; or
(b) have previously re-sat examinations or repeated
modules under ST 14.5. and are applying to
complete the course for which those examinations
were re-sat or modules repeated; or
(c) are applying to:
(i) continue studying with their current student
sponsor; or
(ii) move to a new student sponsor to enable
them to follow their academic supervisor to
another institution,
for the purpose of completing the PhD or other
doctoral qualification for which study was
undertaken during their last period of permission as
a Student; or
(d) are making an application to move to a new
student sponsor to complete a course of study
begun at a student sponsor that has subsequently
had its licence revoked; or
(e) are applying to undertake a role as a Student
Union Sabbatical Officer; or
(f) after undertaking a period as a Student Union
Sabbatical Officer are applying to complete the
qualification for which the Confirmation of
Acceptance for Studies was assigned before that
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-student

Page 14 of 36

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules: Appendix Student - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:34 am

period; or
(g) DELETED
(h) are applying to undertake an intercalated
bachelor’s or master’s degree course or PhD where
they are studying medicine, veterinary medicine and
science, or dentistry as their principal course of
study, or to complete their principal course, having
completed a period of intercalation; or
(i) are applying to undertake a study abroad
programme or work placement which is both integral
to and assessed as part of the course, or to
complete their course, having completed a study
abroad programme or work placement.
ST 14.5. If the applicant is sponsored by a probationary
sponsor, they must not previously have re-sat the same
examination or repeated the same module, more than
once (they can only do so twice).
Combined Pre-sessional Course requirement for a
Student
ST 15.1. A single Confirmation of Acceptance for
Studies can be assigned for a combined pre-sessional
course and a main course at degree level or above by a
higher education provider with a track record of
compliance if:
(a) the pre-sessional course lasts no longer than 3
months; and
(b) the main course will begin no more than 1 month
after the pre-sessional course ends.
ST 15.2. If the applicant has been assessed as having
language ability of at least level B2 in order to meet the
English language requirement at ST 13.1., the
Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies must confirm
that the applicant has an unconditional offer of a place
on the main course.
ST 15.3. If the applicant has been assessed (which
must be by a method other than assessment by the
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-student

Page 15 of 36

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules: Appendix Student - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:34 am

student sponsor) as having language ability of at least
level B1 in order to meet the English language
requirement at ST 13.1., the Confirmation of
Acceptance for Studies must confirm that the student
sponsor is satisfied that the applicant will have at least
level B2 at the end of the pre-sessional course.
Postgraduate Doctor or Dentist requirement
ST 16.1. DELETED
Work Placement requirement
ST 17.1. A course that includes a work placement must
lead to an approved qualification and the Confirmation
of Acceptance for Studies must be assigned by a
student sponsor (who is not a probationary sponsor) if
the course of study is below degree level.
ST 17.2. A work placement must be assessed as an
integral part of the course and must not be longer than
one third of the total length of the course, except when
there is a statutory requirement that it must be so, or
where ST 17.3. applies.
ST 17.3. A work placement on a course that is at degree
level or above:
(a) at a higher education provider with a track record
of compliance; or
(b) at an overseas higher education institution in the
UK; or
(c) as part of a qualification recognised as being at
UK bachelor’s degree level or above by a student
undertaking a study abroad programme in the UK,
must not be longer than half of the total length of the
course of study.
ST 18.1. DELETED.
ST 18.2. DELETED.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-student

Page 16 of 36

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules: Appendix Student - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:34 am

Maximum period of study requirement for a Student
ST 19.1. If the course is below degree level, the grant of
permission must not lead to the applicant being granted
more than two years’ permission as a Student to study
courses below degree level from the age of 18 unless
ST 19.2. applies.
ST 19.2. If the course is below degree level but is
subject to a regulatory requirement by the Maritime and
Coastguard Agency that the applicant must spend at
least 12 months at sea as a part of that course, the
grant of permission must not lead to the applicant being
granted more than 3 years’ permission as a Student
from the age of 18 to study courses below degree level.
ST 19.3. If the course is at degree level, the grant of
permission must not lead to the applicant being granted
more than five years’ permission as a Student from the
age of 18 to study courses at degree level unless the
course of study is one of those listed at ST 19.4.
ST 19.4. The five-year maximum period of study at
degree level in ST 19.3. will not apply if the applicant
has a Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies that has
been assigned for a course of study in one of the
following subjects:
(a) architecture; or
(b) medicine; or
(c) dentistry; or
(d) veterinary medicine and science; or
(e) music at a music college that is a member of
Conservatoires UK; or
(f) law, where the applicant has completed a course
at degree level or above and is applying for a course
of study which is:
(i) a law conversion course validated by the
Solicitors Regulation Authority and the Bar
Standards Board in England and Wales; or
(ii) a Masters in Law (MLaw) in Northern Ireland;
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-student

Page 17 of 36

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules: Appendix Student - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:34 am

or
(iii) an accelerated graduate LLB in Scotland.
ST 19.5. DELETED
ST 19.6. When calculating the period of permission
granted under ST 19.1. to ST 19.5., any period of
permission as a Student extended under section 3C of
the Immigration Act 1971 will count towards the period
of permission granted.
Documents used to obtain an offer requirement for
a Student
ST 20.1. The applicant must provide evidence of the
qualifications or references they used to obtain the offer
of a place on the course of study from the student
sponsor, unless either:
(a) the applicant is applying for a course of study at
degree level or above and is sponsored by a higher
education provider with a track record of
compliance; or
(b) ST 22.1. applies.
ST 20.2. The evidence of each qualification must be one
of the following:
(a) the certificate(s) of qualification; or
(b) the transcript of results; or
(c) a print out of the qualification or transcript results
from the awarding body’s online checking service.
ST 20.3. Where the applicant has provided a print out of
qualifications or transcript results from the awarding
body’s online checking service, the decision maker may
require the applicant to provide the certificate of
qualification or transcript of results.
Parental consent requirement for a Student
ST 21.1. The applicant must meet the parental consent
requirement for applicant not applying as a dependent
child in Appendix Children.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-student

Page 18 of 36

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules: Appendix Student - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:34 am

ST 21.2. DELETED
Differential evidence requirement for a Student
ST 22.1. Evidence to show that the applicant meets the
financial requirement and the requirement to provide
documents used to obtain an offer does not need to be
provided with the application (but may be required by
the decision maker) if the applicant is applying from the
country or territory where they are living, or from in the
UK, and the applicant either:
(a) holds a passport which shows they are
registered as a British National (Overseas), or which
was issued by the competent authorities of Hong
Kong SAR, Macau SAR or Taiwan (which includes
the number of the identification card issued by the
competent authority in Taiwan); or
(b) is a national of any of the following:
Australia
Austria
Bahrain
Barbados
Belgium
Botswana
Brazil
Brunei
Bulgaria
Cambodia
Canada
Chile
China
Croatia
Republic of Cyprus
Czech Republic
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-student

Page 19 of 36

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules: Appendix Student - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:34 am

Denmark
The Dominican Republic
Estonia
Finland
France
Germany
Greece
Hungary
Iceland
Indonesia
Ireland
Italy
Japan
Kazakhstan
Kuwait
Latvia
Liechtenstein
Lithuania
Luxembourg
Malaysia
Malta
Mauritius
Mexico
Netherlands
New Zealand
Norway
Oman
Peru
Poland
Portugal
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-student

Page 20 of 36

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules: Appendix Student - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:34 am

Qatar
Romania
Serbia
Singapore
Slovakia
Slovenia
South Korea
Spain
Sweden
Switzerland
Thailand
Tunisia
United Arab Emirates
United States of America

Information on the Confirmation of
Acceptance for Studies requirement
ST 23.1. The student sponsor must provide all the
following information about the course of study on the
Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies:
(a) title of course; and
(b) academic level of course; and
(c) course start and end dates; and
(d) hours of study per week, including confirmation
on whether the course is part-time or full-time; and
(e) the address of the main place of study; and
(f) the cost of accommodation and fees; and
(g) if the student sponsor has assessed the
applicant by use of one or more references, details
of the references assessed; and
(h) if the course involves a work placement, details
of any work placement relating to the course; and
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-student

Page 21 of 36

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules: Appendix Student - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:34 am

(i) if the course will be provided by an education
provider which is not the student sponsor, details of
the partner institution; and
(j) whether the ATAS requirement in Annex ATAS
applies; and
(k) DELETED
(l) a statement of how the student sponsor has
assessed the applicant’s English language ability
including, where relevant, the applicant’s English
language test scores in all 4 components (reading,
writing, speaking and listening); and
(m) if the course is part of a study abroad
programme, the name and address of the partner
institution; and
(n) if the applicant is applying for a full-time, salaried,
elected executive position as a Student Union
Sabbatical Officer and is part-way through their
studies or being sponsored to fill the position in the
academic year immediately after their graduation;
and
(o) DELETED
(p) if the applicant has previously been granted
permission as a Student, confirmation that the new
course meets the academic progress requirement
from the previous course as required by ST 14.1. to
ST 14.5.

Decision on application for a Student
ST 24.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all the
suitability and eligibility requirements for a Student are
met, the application will be granted; otherwise, the
application will be refused.
ST 24.2. If the application is refused, the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-student

Page 22 of 36

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules: Appendix Student - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:34 am

Period and conditions of grant for a
Student
ST 25.1. The grant of permission will be subject to the
following conditions:
(a) no access to public funds; and
(b) no work, except as specified in ST 26; and
(c) no study, except as specified in ST 27.
(d) DELETED
ST 25.2. The applicant will be granted permission for
the duration of the course as specified on the
Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies plus the relevant
periods specified in ST 25.3.
ST 25.3. The period of permission granted to an
applicant before the start of the course who is applying
for entry clearance will be either:
(a) the relevant period before the course date which
is set out in the table below, if entry clearance is
granted 1 month or more before the start date of the
course; or
(b) 7 days before the intended date of travel, if entry
clearance is granted less than 1 month before the
start date of the course; or
(c) with immediate effect, if entry clearance is
granted less than 7 days before the intended date of
travel and less than 1 month before the start date of
the course.
The applicant will be granted a period of permission
dependent on the type and length of course as in the
table below:
Type of Course

Period
granted
before
course start
date

Period
granted
after course
end date

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-student

Page 23 of 36

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules: Appendix Student - Guidance - GOV.UK

A course of 12 months
or longer

1 Month

4 Months

A course of 6 months or
longer but shorter than
12 months

1 Month

2 Months

A pre-sessional course
of less than 6 months

1 Month

1 Month

A course of less than 6
months in length which
is not a pre- sessional
course

7 Days

7 Days

07/05/2026, 11:34 am

Work Conditions for a Student
ST26.1. The applicant will be granted permission with
the following employment conditions:
Type of study

Employment
conditions

Student following a full-time
course of degree level or above
study:
• sponsored by a higher
education provider with a track
record of compliance; or
• sponsored by an overseas
higher education institution to
undertake a short-term study
abroad programme in the UK

20 hours per week
during term-time (fulltime employment
permitted outside of
term-time)

Student undertaking a full-time
course below degree level
study sponsored by a higher
education provider with a track
record of compliance

10 hours per week
during term-time (fulltime employment
permitted outside of
term-time)

All other study, including all
part-time study

No employment
permitted

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-student

Page 24 of 36

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules: Appendix Student - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:34 am

ST 26.2. Students are permitted to undertake work
related to a work placement, assessed as an integral
part of the course, that meets the requirements at ST
17.1. to ST 17.3.
ST 26.3. Employment as an elected Student Union
Sabbatical Officer or elected National Union of Students
(NUS) position is permitted for up to 2 years if the
Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies was assigned
for this purpose.
ST 26.4. DELETED.
ST 26.5. A Student is not allowed to do any of the
following:
(a) be self-employed or engage in business activity
unless ST 26.8 applies; or
(b) work as a professional sportsperson (including
as a sports coach); or
(c) work as an entertainer; or
(d) work in a position which would fill a permanent
full-time vacancy unless ST 26.6. applies.
ST 26.6. A Student who makes a valid application for
permission to stay under the Skilled Worker, or
Graduate route, may start employment in a full-time
permanent vacancy either up to 3 months prior to the
course completion date (for the Skilled Worker route) or
once they have successfully completed their course of
study (for the Graduate route), provided all of the
following apply:
(a) the Student is studying a full-time course of study
at degree level or above with a higher education
provider with a track record of compliance; and
(b) the application as a Skilled Worker, or Graduate,
was made when the applicant had permission as a
Student; and
(c) a decision has not been made on the Skilled
Worker, or Graduate, application, or where a
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-student

Page 25 of 36

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules: Appendix Student - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:34 am

decision has been made, any Administrative Review
against a refusal of that application has not been
finally determined.
ST 26.7. DELETED
ST 26.8. A Student may be self-employed, if:
(a) they have applied for permission on the
Innovator Founder route; and
(b) that application is supported by an endorsement
from an Innovator Founder endorsing body; and
(c) the application was made when the applicant had
permission as a Student; and
(d) a decision has not been made on the application,
or where the application has been refused, any
Administrative Review against a refusal has not
been finally determined.

Study Conditions
ST 27.1. A Student must only study with the student
sponsor which assigned the Confirmation of Acceptance
for Studies unless either:
(a) the Student is studying at a partner institution of
their student sponsor; or
(b) the Student has made an application for
permission to stay while they have permission as a
Student:
(i) which is supported by a valid Confirmation of
Acceptance for Studies assigned by a student
sponsor; and
(ii) the application has not yet been decided, or
any Administrative Review against that decision
has not been determined; and
(iii) the Student will be studying at the student
sponsor that assigned the Confirmation of
Acceptance for Studies.
ST 27.2. A Student must only study on the course of
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-student

Page 26 of 36

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules: Appendix Student - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:34 am

study, or courses where a combined pre- sessional
course is being taken, for which the Confirmation of
Acceptance for Studies was assigned unless ST 27.3.
applies.
ST 27.3. A Student may begin studying on a new course
with their current student sponsor if:
(a) the student sponsor is a higher education
provider with a track record of compliance; and
(b) the Student has not completed the course that
the Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies was
assigned for; and
(c) the new course is not at a lower qualification
level than the course the Confirmation of
Acceptance for Studies was assigned for unless
they were last granted permission to study an
integrated master’s or PhD programme and will now
be studying on the lower level qualification of that
programme.; and
(d) the course is at degree level or above; and
(e) any new course at degree level can be
completed within the current period of permission;
and
(f) the student sponsor confirms that new course is
related to the course for which the Confirmation of
Acceptance for Studies was assigned or supports
the Student’s genuine career aspirations.
ST 27.4. The Student may study on a study abroad
programme overseas that is an integral and assessed
part of the course of study named on the Confirmation
of Acceptance for Studies.
ST 27.5. Supplementary study is permitted.
ST 27.6. Study is subject to the ATAS condition in
Appendix ATAS.
ST 27.7. The Student must not study at a State School
or Academy (except for a voluntary grammar school
with boarding in Northern Ireland) but if the Student has
been granted permission to study at a student sponsor
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-student

Page 27 of 36

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules: Appendix Student - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:34 am

which becomes a State School or Academy during that
period of permission the Student may complete the
course for which the Confirmation of Acceptance for
Studies was assigned.

Dependants of a Student
Validity requirements for a dependent partner or
dependent child of a Student
ST 28.1. A person applying for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a partner or child of a Student
must apply on the specified form on the gov.uk website
as follows:
Location of Partner or Child

Specified form

Applicant outside the UK

Dependant partner visa
Dependant child visa

Applicant inside the UK

Dependant partner
Dependant child

ST 28.2. An application for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a partner or child of a Student
must meet all the following requirements:
(a) any fee and Immigration Health Charge must
have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other travel document which satisfactorily
establishes their identity and nationality; and
(d) the applicant must be applying as partner or child
of a person who:
(i) has made a valid application for entry
clearance or permission to stay on the Student
route that has not been decided; or
(ii) has entry clearance or permission to stay on
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-student

Page 28 of 36

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules: Appendix Student - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:34 am

the Student route.
ST 28.3. If the applicant has in the 12 months before the
date of application completed a course of studies in the
UK for which they have been awarded a scholarship or
sponsorship by a Government or international
scholarship agency covering both fees and living costs
for study in the UK, they must provide written consent to
the application from that Government or agency.
ST 28.4. If applying for permission to stay, the applicant
must be in the UK on the date of application.
ST 28.4A. If applying for permission to stay, the
applicant must not have, or have last been granted,
permission:
(a) as a Visitor; or
(b) as a Short-term Student; or
(c) as a Parent of a Child Student; or
(d) as a Seasonal Worker; or
(e) as a Domestic Worker in a Private Household; or
(f) outside the Immigration Rules.
ST 28.5. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for a partner or child of a Student
may be rejected as invalid and not considered.
Suitability requirements for a dependent partner or
dependent child of a Student
ST 29.1. The suitability requirements for a partner or
child on the Student route are that they must not fall for
refusal under Part Suitability.
ST 29.2. A person applying for permission to stay must
not be:
(a) in the UK in breach of immigration laws, except
that where the Exceptions for overstayers section of
Part Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will
be disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-student

Page 29 of 36

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules: Appendix Student - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:34 am

Eligibility requirements for a dependent partner or
dependent child of a Student
Entry requirement for a dependent partner or
dependent child of a Student
ST 30.1. A person seeking to come to the UK as a
partner or child of a Student must apply for and obtain
entry clearance as a partner or child before they arrive
in the UK.
ST 30.2. A person applying for entry clearance as the
partner or child of a Student must, if Appendix
Tuberculosis applies, provide a valid medical certificate
confirming that they have undergone screening for
active pulmonary tuberculosis and that this tuberculosis
is not present in them.
Student course requirement for a dependent partner
or dependent child of a Student
ST 31.1. Unless they are a child who meets the
requirements in ST 31.2., the applicant must be the
partner or child of a person who is:
(a) a Student who has received a scholarship or
sponsorship from a Government for study in the UK
and has, or is applying for, permission to study on a
full-time course of 6 months or longer; or
(b) a full-time Student who has, or is applying for,
permission to study a postgraduate level course of 9
months or longer at a higher education provider with
a track record of compliance and, if the course start
date is on or after 1 January 2024, the provider has
confirmed the course is a PhD or other doctoral
qualification, or a research-based higher degree; or
(c) DELETED
(d) a Student who has, or had within the last 3
months before the date of application, permission to
study on a full-time course of 6 months or longer,
and is now applying for permission to study a fullhttps://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-student

Page 30 of 36

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules: Appendix Student - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:34 am

time course of 6 months or longer where either:
(i) the partner or child already has, or had within
the last 3 months before the date of application,
permission as a dependent partner or dependent
child of the Student; or
(ii) the child was born since the last grant of
permission to the Student, where the Student
and partner or child are applying at the same
time.
ST 31.2. If the applicant is a child who does not meet
the requirement at ST.31.1., they must instead meet one
of the following requirements:
(a) the applicant must have been born during the
Student’s current period of permission to study a fulltime course of 6 months or longer and they are
applying for permission during that period; or
(b) where the Student has permission to re-sit
examinations or repeat a module of a full- time
course of 6 months or longer, the applicant must
have been born either:
(i) during the Student’s original period of
permission; or
(ii) during the period of permission granted for resitting examinations or to repeat a module; or
(c) the applicant must have been born no more than
3 months after the expiry of the Student’s most
recent permission and must be making an
application for entry clearance within 6 months of the
expiry of their parent’s most recent permission.
Relationship requirement for dependent partner of a
Student
ST 32.1. The applicant must be the partner of a Person
(P) where one of the following applies:
(a) P has permission to stay on the Student route; or
(b) P is, at the same time, applying for (and is
granted) entry clearance or permission to stay on
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-student

Page 31 of 36

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules: Appendix Student - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:34 am

the Student route.
ST 32.2. The requirements of Appendix Relationship
with Partner must be met.
ST 32.3. DELETED
ST 32.4. DELETED
ST 32.5. DELETED
ST 32.6. DELETED
Financial requirement for dependent partner of a
Student
ST 33.1. If the applicant is applying for permission to
stay and has been living in the UK with permission for
12 months or longer on the date of application, they will
meet the financial requirement and do not need to show
funds.
ST 33.2. If the applicant is applying for entry clearance
or permission to stay, where they have been in the UK
less than 12 months, the applicant or their partner (who
must be a Student or applying at the same time as a
Student) must have the funds specified in the table
below, for a total of 9 months, or for the period of
permission applied for by the applicant, whichever is the
shorter.
Place of Student’s
study

Funds required by a
dependent partner

Studying in London

£845 per month

Studying outside
London

£680 per month

ST 33.3. The funds must be in addition to the funds
required for the Student to meet the financial
requirement, and the funds required to meet the
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-student

Page 32 of 36

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules: Appendix Student - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:34 am

financial requirement for any dependent child who is
applying at the same time, or is already in the UK as a
dependent child of the Student.
ST 33.4. Unless the applicant is relying on financial
sponsorship from a Government or international
scholarship agency that covers the living costs of the
applicant and the Student, they must show that they
have held the required level of funds for a 28-day period
and as specified in Appendix Finance.
ST 33.5. Unless the applicant is applying at the same
time as the Student and ST 22.1. applies, the applicant
must show that they have the required funds as
specified in Appendix Finance.
ST.33.6. If the funds held in the applicant’s account on
the date of decision fall substantially below the level of
funds required at ST 33.2, the decision maker must be
satisfied that the spent funds have been used to pay a
deposit for accommodation or other costs associated
with the proposed period of permission in the UK.
ST 34.1. DELETED
ST 34.2. DELETED
ST 34.3. DELETED
ST 35.1. DELETED
ST 36.1. DELETED
ST 36.2. DELETED
Requirements for a dependent child of a Student
ST 36A.1. The applicant must meet the following
requirements for a dependent child in Appendix
Children:
(a) relationship requirement: entry clearance and
permission to stay; and
(b) care requirement; and
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-student

Page 33 of 36

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules: Appendix Student - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:34 am

(c) age and independent life requirement.
Financial requirement for dependent child of a
Student
ST 37.1. If the applicant is applying for permission to
stay and has been in the UK with permission for 12
months or longer on the date of application, they will
meet the financial requirement and do not need to show
funds.
ST 37.2. Where the applicant is applying for entry
clearance, or permission to stay and they have been in
the UK less than 12 months on the date of application,
the applicant or their parent must have the funds
specified in the table below, for a total of 9 months, or
for the period of permission applied for by the applicant,
whichever is the shorter.
Place of Student’s
study

Funds required for a
dependent child

Studying in London

£845 per month

Studying outside
London

£680 per month

ST 37.3. The funds must be in addition to the funds
required for the Student to meet the financial
requirement, and the funds required for any dependant
of the Student, who is applying at the same time as the
applicant or is already in the UK as a dependant of the
Student.
ST 37.4. Where ST 37.2. applies, unless the applicant is
relying on financial sponsorship from a Government or
international scholarship agency that covers the living
costs of the Student and the applicant, the required level
of funds must have been held for a 28-day period and
as specified in Appendix Finance.
ST.37.5. If the funds held in the applicant’s account on
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-student

Page 34 of 36

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules: Appendix Student - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:34 am

the date of decision fall substantially below the level of
funds required at ST 37.2, the decision maker must be
satisfied that the spent funds have been used to pay a
deposit for accommodation or other costs associated
with the proposed period of permission in the UK.
Decision on an application as a dependent partner
or dependent child of a Student
ST 38.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all the
suitability and eligibility requirements for the dependent
partner or dependent child of a Student are met, the
application will be granted, otherwise the application will
be refused.
ST 38.2. If the application is refused, the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR.
Period and conditions of grant for a dependent
partner or dependent child of a Student
ST 39.1. A dependent partner will be granted permission
which ends on the same date as the Student’s
permission.
ST 39.2. A dependent child will be granted permission
which ends on the same date as whichever of their
parents’ permission ends first.
ST 39.3. The grant will be subject to all the following
conditions:
(a) no access to public funds; and
(b) work (including self-employment and voluntary
work) is permitted except:
(i) where the dependant meets the requirement
at ST 31.1.(d) and the Student has been granted
less than 9 months’ permission, unless that is to
continue a course of study where they had
previously been granted at least 9 months’
permission; or
(ii) where the dependant meets the requirement
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-student

Page 35 of 36

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules: Appendix Student - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:34 am

at ST 31.1.(d) and the Student is studying a
course below degree level; or
(iii) no employment as a professional
sportsperson (including as a sports coach); and
(c) study is permitted, subject to the ATAS condition
in Appendix ATAS (if the study will commence when
the partner or child is aged over 18).
(d) DELETED

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-student

© Crown copyright

Page 36 of 36

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix T2 Minister of Religion - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:40 am

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix T2 Minister
of Religion
This route is for a person who has a key
leading role within their faith-based
organisation or a religious order in the UK.
A dependent partner and dependent children of a T2
Minister of Religion can apply on this route.
T2 Minister of Religion is a route to settlement.

Validity requirements for a T2 Minister of
Religion
MOR 1.1. A person applying for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a T2 Minister of Religion must
apply online on the gov.uk website on the specified form
as follows:
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-t2-minister-of-religion

Page 1 of 22

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix T2 Minister of Religion - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:40 am

(a) for applicants outside the UK, form “Tier 2
(Minister of Religion) visa”; or
(b) for applicants inside the UK, form “Tier 2
(Minister of Religion) leave to remain”.
MOR 1.2. An application for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a T2 Minister of Religion must
meet all the following requirements:
(a) any fee and Immigration Health Charge must
have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other travel document which satisfactorily
establishes their identity and nationality; and
(d) the applicant must have a Certificate of
Sponsorship that was issued to them by their
sponsor no more than 3 months before the date of
application.
MOR 1.3. The applicant must be aged 18 or over on the
date of application.
MOR 1.4. If the applicant has, in the last 12 months
before the date of application, received an award from a
Government or international scholarship agency
covering both fees and living costs for study in the UK,
they must provide written consent to the application
from that Government or agency.
MOR 1.5. If applying for permission to stay, the
applicant must be in the UK on the date of application.
MOR 1.5ZA. If applying for permission to stay, the
applicant must not have, or have last been granted,
permission:
(a) as a Visitor; or
(b) as a Short-term Student; or
(c) as a Parent of a Child Student; or
(d) as a Seasonal Worker; or
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-t2-minister-of-religion

Page 2 of 22

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix T2 Minister of Religion - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:40 am

(e) as a Domestic Worker in a Private Household; or
(f) outside the Immigration Rules.
MOR 1.5A. An applicant who is applying for permission
to stay and has, or last had, permission as a Student,
must fulfil one of the Conditions A, B or C below on the
date of application:
(a) Condition A: the applicant must have completed
the course of study for which the Confirmation of
Acceptance for Studies was assigned (or a course to
which ST 27.3 of Appendix Student applies); or
(b) Condition B:
(i) the applicant must be studying a full-time
course of study at degree level or above with a
higher education provider which has a track
record of compliance; and
(ii) the Certificate of Sponsorship in MOR 1.2(d)
must have a start date no earlier than the course
completion date; or
(c) Condition C:
(i) the applicant must be studying a full-time
course of study leading to the award of a PhD
with a higher education provider which has a
track record of compliance; and
(ii) the Certificate of Sponsorship in MOR 1.2(d)
must have a start date no earlier than 24 months
after the start date of that course.
MOR 1.6. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for a T2 Minister of Religion may
be rejected as invalid and not considered.

Suitability Requirements for a T2
Minister of Religion
MOR 2.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
MOR 2.2. If applying for permission to stay the applicant
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-t2-minister-of-religion

Page 3 of 22

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix T2 Minister of Religion - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:40 am

must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.

Eligibility Requirements for a T2 Minister
of Religion
Entry requirement for a T2 Minister of Religion
MOR 3.1. A person seeking to come to the UK as a T2
Minister of Religion must apply for and obtain entry
clearance as a T2 Minister of Religion before they arrive
in the UK.
MOR 3.2. A person applying for entry clearance as a T2
Minister of Religion must, if Appendix Tuberculosis
applies, provide a valid medical certificate confirming
that they have undergone screening for active
pulmonary tuberculosis and that this tuberculosis is not
present in them.
Points Requirement for a T2 Minister of Religion
MOR 4.1. The applicant must be awarded all 70 points
in the table below:
Points requirements (all mandatory)

Points

Certificate of Sponsorship

50

Financial requirement

10

English language skills at level B2

10

Sponsorship requirements for a T2 Minister of
Religion
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-t2-minister-of-religion

Page 4 of 22

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix T2 Minister of Religion - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:40 am

MOR 5.1. The applicant must have a valid Certificate of
Sponsorship for the job they are planning to do, which to
be valid, must:
(a) confirm the applicant’s name, that they are being
sponsored as a T2 Minister of Religion and details of
the job and salary the sponsor is offering them, as
well as any other remuneration; and
(b) include a start date, stated by the sponsor, which
must be no more than three months after the date of
application; and
(c) not have been used in a previous application
which was either granted or refused (but can have
been used in a previous application which was
rejected as invalid, made void or withdrawn); and
(d) not have been withdrawn by the sponsor or
cancelled by the Home Office; and
(e) confirm that the applicant is qualified to do the
job of a T2 Minister of Religion; and
(f) confirm that the applicant is a member of the
sponsor’s religious order (if the sponsor’s
organisation is a religious order); and
(g) confirm that the applicant will perform religious
duties within the sponsor’s organisation or directed
by the sponsor’s organisation in the UK (which may
include preaching, pastoral and non-pastoral work);
and
(h) confirm that the applicant’s role will not involve
mainly non-pastoral duties, such as school teaching,
media production, domestic work or administrative
and clerical work, unless the role is a senior position
within the sponsor’s organisation; and
(i) confirm that the applicant will receive pay and
conditions at least equal to those given to settled
workers in the same role and compliant with, or
exempt from, the national minimum wage.
MOR 5.2. The sponsor must be authorised by the Home
Office to sponsor the job in question under the T2
Minister of Religion route.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-t2-minister-of-religion

Page 5 of 22

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix T2 Minister of Religion - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:40 am

MOR 5.3. The sponsor must be listed as A-rated on the
Home Office’s register of licensed sponsors, unless the
applicant was last granted permission as a T2 Minister
of Religion and is applying to continue working for the
same sponsor as in their last permission.
MOR 5.4. The decision maker must not have
reasonable grounds to believe the job the applicant is
being sponsored to do does not comply with the
National Minimum Wage Regulations or the Working
Time Regulations.
Genuineness requirement for a T2 Minister of
Religion
MOR 6.1. The applicant must:
(a) genuinely intend, and be able, to undertake the
role for which they are being sponsored; and
(b) not intend to undertake employment other than in
the role for which they are being sponsored, or as
otherwise permitted at MOR 10.3.
Financial requirement for a T2 Minister of Religion
MOR 7.1. If the applicant is applying for permission to
stay and has been living in the UK with permission for
12 months or longer on the date of application, they will
meet the financial requirement and do not need to show
funds.
MOR 7.2. If the applicant is applying for entry clearance,
or is applying for permission to stay and has been living
in the UK for less than 12 months on the date of
application, either:
(a) the applicant must have funds of at least £1,270;
or
(b) the applicant’s A-rated sponsor must confirm on
the Certificate of Sponsorship that they will, if it is
necessary, maintain and accommodate the applicant
up to the end of the first month of their employment
for an amount of at least £1,270.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-t2-minister-of-religion

Page 6 of 22

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix T2 Minister of Religion - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:40 am

MOR 7.3. If MOR 7.2.(a) applies, the applicant must
have held the required level of funds for a 28-day period
and must show funds as specified in Appendix Finance.
English language requirement for a T2 Minister of
Religion
MOR 8.1. Unless an exemption applies, the applicant
must show English language ability on the Common
European Framework of Reference for Languages in all
4 components (reading, writing, speaking and listening)
of at least level B2.
MOR 8.2. The applicant must show they meet the
English language requirement as specified in Appendix
English Language.

Decision on an application as a T2
Minister of Religion
MOR 9.1. If the decision maker is satisfied all the
suitability and eligibility requirements for a T2 Minister of
Religion are met the application will be granted,
otherwise the application will be refused.
MOR 9.2. If the application is refused the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.
Period of grant for a T2 Minister of Religion
MOR 10.1. If the applicant is applying for entry
clearance, permission will be granted for whichever is
the shorter of:
(a) up to 14 days after the period of employment
stated on their Certificate of Sponsorship; or
(b) 3 years and 1 month.
MOR 10.2. If the applicant is applying for permission to
stay, it will be granted for whichever is the shorter of:
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-t2-minister-of-religion

Page 7 of 22

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix T2 Minister of Religion - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:40 am

(a) up to 14 days after the period of employment
stated on their Certificate of Sponsorship; or
(b) 3 years; or
(c) the difference between 6 years and the period
they have already been granted permission as a T2
Minister of Religion, International Sportsperson, or
Skilled Worker (or any combination of these routes).
Conditions of grant for a T2 Minister of Religion
MOR 10.3. The grant will be subject to all the following
conditions:
(a) no access to public funds; and
(b) the only work permitted is:
(i) work in the job the applicant is being
sponsored for; and
(ii) supplementary employment, provided the
applicant is still doing the job they were
sponsored for; and
(iii) voluntary work; and
(iv) working out a contractual notice for a job the
person was lawfully working in on the date of
application; and
(c) study is permitted, subject to the ATAS condition
in Appendix ATAS.
(d) DELETED

Settlement as a T2 Minister of Religion
Validity requirements for settlement as a T2 Minister
of Religion
MOR 11.1. A person who is applying for settlement as a
T2 Minister of Religion must apply online on the gov.uk
website on the specified form “Settle in the UK in
various immigration categories: form SET(O)”.
MOR 11.2. An application for settlement must meet all
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-t2-minister-of-religion

Page 8 of 22

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix T2 Minister of Religion - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:40 am

the following requirements:
(a) any fee must have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other travel document which satisfactorily
establishes their identity and nationality; and
(d) the applicant must be in the UK on the date of
application.
MOR 11.3. The applicant must have, or have last been
granted, permission as a T2 Minister of Religion.
MOR 11.4. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for settlement for a T2 Minister of
Religion may be rejected as invalid and not considered.
Suitability Requirements for settlement as a T2
Minister of Religion
MOR 12.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
MOR 12.2. The applicant must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.
Eligibility requirements for settlement as a T2
Minister of Religion
Sponsorship requirement for settlement as a T2
Minister of Religion
MOR 13.1. The sponsor in the applicant’s most recent
permission must still be approved by the Home Office to
sponsor a T2 Minister of Religion.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-t2-minister-of-religion

Page 9 of 22

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix T2 Minister of Religion - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:40 am

MOR 13.2. The sponsor must confirm that they still
require the applicant to work for them for the
foreseeable future, and that the applicant is paid, and
will be paid for the foreseeable future, the appropriate
salary under MOR 5.1.(i).
Qualifying period requirement for settlement as a T2
Minister of Religion
MOR 14.1. The applicant must have spent a continuous
period of 5 years in the UK, and that period must consist
of time with permission (not as a dependant) on any (or
a combination) of the following routes:
(a) T2 Minister of Religion; or
(b) International Sportsperson; or
(c) Skilled Worker; or
(d) Tier 1, other than Tier 1 (Graduate
Entrepreneur); or
(e) Representative of an Overseas Business; or
(f) Innovator Founder; or
(g) Global Talent; or
(h) Scale-up.
Continuous residence requirement for settlement as
a T2 Minister of Religion
MOR 15.1. The applicant must meet the continuous
residence requirement as specified in Appendix
Continuous residence for the period in MOR 14.1.
Knowledge of Life in the UK requirement for
settlement as a T2 Minister of Religion
MOR 16.1. Unless an exemption applies, the applicant
must meet the Knowledge of Life in the UK requirement
as specified in Appendix KOL UK.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-t2-minister-of-religion

Page 10 of 22

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix T2 Minister of Religion - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:40 am

Decision on an application for settlement as a T2
Minister of Religion
MOR 17.1. If the decision maker is satisfied all the
suitability and eligibility requirements for settlement as a
T2 Minister of Religion are met the applicant will be
granted settlement, otherwise the application will be
refused.
MOR 17.2. If the application is refused the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.

Dependants of a T2 Minister of Religion
Validity requirements for a dependent partner
(“partner”) or dependent child (“child”) of a T2
Minister of Religion
MOR 18.1. A person applying for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a partner or child of a T2 Minister
of Religion must apply online on the gov.uk website on
the specified form as follows:
Location
of
partner
or child

Specified form

Outside
the UK

Dependant partner visa
Dependant child visa

Inside
the UK

If applying at the same time as the T2
Minister of Religion, they can be added to
the Tier 2 (Minister of Religion) leave to
remain form.
If applying separately from the T2 Minister
of Religion:
• Dependant partner
• Dependant child

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-t2-minister-of-religion

Page 11 of 22

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix T2 Minister of Religion - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:40 am

MOR 18.2. An application for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a partner or child of a T2 Minister
of Religion must meet all the following requirements:
(a) any fee and Immigration Health Charge must
have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other travel document which satisfactorily
establishes their identity and nationality; and
(i) has made a valid application for entry
clearance or permission to stay on the T2
Minister of Religion route that has not been
decided; or
(ii) has permission on the T2 Minister of Religion
route; or
(iii) is settled or has become a British citizen,
providing that P had permission on the T2
Minister of Religion route when they settled and
the applicant either had permission as their
partner or child at that time, or the applicant is
applying as a child of P and the applicant was
born in the UK before P settled.
MOR 18.3. An applicant applying as a partner must be
aged 18 or over on the date of application.
MOR 18.4. If applying for permission to stay, the
applicant must be in the UK on the date of application.
MOR 18.4ZA. If applying for permission to stay, the
applicant must not have, or have last been granted,
permission:
(a) as a Visitor; or
(b) as a Short-term Student; or
(c) as a Parent of a Child Student; or
(d) as a Seasonal Worker; or
(e) as a Domestic Worker in a Private Household; or
(f) outside the Immigration Rules.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-t2-minister-of-religion

Page 12 of 22

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix T2 Minister of Religion - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:40 am

MOR 18.4A. An applicant who is applying for permission
to stay and has, or last had, permission as a Student,
must fulfil one of the Conditions A or B below on the
date of application:
(a) Condition A: the applicant must have completed
the course of study for which the Confirmation of
Acceptance for Studies was assigned (or a course to
which ST 27.3 of Appendix Student applies); or
(b) Condition B: the applicant must:
(i) be studying a full-time course of study leading
to the award of a PhD with a higher education
provider which has a track record of compliance;
and
(ii) have completed at least 24 months of study
on that course.
MOR 18.5. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for a partner or child of a T2
Minister of Religion may be rejected as invalid and not
considered.
Suitability requirements for a partner or child of a T2
Minister of Religion
MOR 19.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
MOR 19.2. If applying for permission to stay the
applicant must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.
Eligibility requirements for partner or child of a T2
Minister of Religion
Entry requirements for a partner or child of a T2
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-t2-minister-of-religion

Page 13 of 22

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix T2 Minister of Religion - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:40 am

Minister of Religion
MOR 20.1. A person seeking to come to the UK as a
partner or child of a T2 Minister of Religion must apply
for and obtain an entry clearance as a partner or child of
a T2 Minister of Religion before they arrive in the UK.
MOR 20.2. A person applying for entry clearance as the
partner or child of a T2 Minister of Religion must, if
Appendix Tuberculosis applies, provide a valid medical
certificate confirming that they have undergone
screening for active pulmonary tuberculosis and that this
tuberculosis is not present in them.
Relationship requirement for a partner of a T2
Minister or Religion
MOR 21.1. The applicant must be the partner of a
person (P) where one of the following applies:
(a) P has permission as a T2 Minister of Religion; or
(b) P is, at the same time, applying for (and is
granted) entry clearance or permission as a T2
Minister of Religion; or
(c) P is settled or has become a British citizen,
providing P had permission as a T2 Minister of
Religion when they settled, and the applicant had
permission as P’s partner at that time.
MOR 21.2. The requirements of Appendix Relationship
with Partner must be met.
MOR 21.3. DELETED
MOR 21.4. DELETED
Relationship requirement for a child of a T2 Minister
of Religion
MOR 22.1. DELETED.
MOR 22.2. DELETED.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-t2-minister-of-religion

Page 14 of 22

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix T2 Minister of Religion - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:40 am

MOR 22.3. DELETED.
Age requirement for a child of a T2 Minister of
Religion
MOR 23.1 DELETED.
MOR 23.2. DELETED.
Care requirement for a child of a T2 Minister of
Religion
MOR 24.1. DELETED.
Requirements for a dependent child of a T2 Minister
of Religion
MOR 24A.1. The applicant must meet the following
requirements for a dependent child in Appendix Children
(a) relationship requirement: entry clearance and
permission to stay; and
(b) care requirement; and
(c) age and independent life requirement.
Financial requirement for a partner or child on the
T2 Minister of Religion route
MOR 25.1. If the applicant is applying for permission to
stay and has been living in the UK with permission for
12 months or longer on the date of application, they will
meet the financial requirement and do not need to show
funds.
MOR 25.2. If an applicant is applying for entry
clearance, or has been in the UK for less than 12
months on the date of application, either:
(a) funds of at least the amount required in MOR
25.3. must be held collectively by one or more of the
following:
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-t2-minister-of-religion

Page 15 of 22

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix T2 Minister of Religion - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:40 am

(i) the applicant; and
(ii) the T2 Minister of Religion; and
(iii) if the applicant is applying as a dependent
child, their parent who is lawfully present in the
UK or being granted entry clearance, or
permission to stay, at the same time; or
(b) the T2 Minister of Religion’s A-rated sponsor
must certify that they will, if necessary, maintain and
accommodate the partner and/or any dependent
child as well as the T2 Minister of Religion, up to the
end of the first month of each of their grants of
permission, to at least the amounts required in MOR
25.3.
MOR 25.3. The level of funds required are:
(a) £285 for a partner in the UK, or applying for entry
clearance; and
(b) £315 for the first dependent child in the UK, or
applying for entry clearance; and
(c) £200 for any other dependent child in the UK, or
applying for entry clearance.
MOR 25.4. If MOR 25.2(a) applies, the funds held for
the applicant must be held in addition to any funds
required for the T2 Minister of Religion to meet the
financial requirement and any other dependents in the
UK or applying at the same time.
MOR 25.5. If MOR 25.2.(a) applies, the funds must
have been held for a 28- day period and as specified in
Appendix Finance.
Decision on an application as a partner or child of a
T2 Minister of Religion
MOR 26.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all the
suitability and eligibility requirements for a partner or
child of a T2 Minister of Religion are met, the application
will be granted, otherwise the application will be refused.
MOR 26.2. If the application is refused, the person can
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-t2-minister-of-religion

Page 16 of 22

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix T2 Minister of Religion - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:40 am

apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.
Period of grant for a partner or a child of a T2
Minister of Religion route
MOR 27.1. A partner will be granted:
(a) permission which ends on the same date as their
partner’s permission as a T2 Minister of Religion; or
(b) 3 years’ permission if the T2 Minister of Religion
was (or is being) granted settlement as a T2 Minister
of Religion.
MOR 27.2. A child will be granted permission which
ends on the same date as whichever of their parents’
permission ends first, unless both parents have (or are
being granted) settlement or British Citizenship, in which
case the child will be granted permission for 3 years.
Conditions of grant for a partner or child of a T2
Minister of Religion
MOR 27.3. The grant will be subject to all the following
conditions:
(a) no access to public funds; and
(b) work (including self-employment and voluntary
work) is permitted; except for employment as a
professional sportsperson (including as a sports
coach); and
(c) study is permitted, subject to the ATAS condition
in Appendix ATAS if the applicant is over the age of
18.
(d) DELETED
Settlement as a partner or child of a T2 Minister of
Religion
Validity requirements for settlement as a partner or
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-t2-minister-of-religion

Page 17 of 22

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix T2 Minister of Religion - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:40 am

child of a T2 Minister of Religion
MOR 28.1. person applying for settlement as a partner
or child of a T2 Minister of Religion must apply online on
the gov.uk website on the specified form “Settle in the
UK in various immigration categories: form SET(O)”.
MOR 28.2. An application for settlement as a partner or
child of a T2 Minister of Religion must meet all the
following requirements:
(a) any fee must have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other travel document which satisfactorily
establishes their identity and nationality; and
(d) the applicant must be in the UK on the date of
application; and
(e) the applicant must be applying as a partner or
child of a person (P) who:
(i) has made a valid application for settlement in
the UK on the T2 Minister of Religion route and
that application has not been decided; or
(ii) is settled or has become a British citizen,
provided that P had permission on the T2
Minister of Religion route when they settled and
the applicant either had permission as their
partner or child at that time, or the applicant is
applying as a child of P and the applicant was
born in the UK before P settled.
MOR 28.3. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for settlement as a partner or child
of a T2 Minister of Religion may be rejected as invalid
and not considered.
Suitability requirements for settlement as a partner
or child of a T2 Minister of Religion
MOR 29.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-t2-minister-of-religion

Page 18 of 22

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix T2 Minister of Religion - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:40 am

Part Suitability.
MOR 29.2. The applicant must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.
Eligibility requirements for settlement as a partner
or child of a T2 Minister of Religion
Relationship requirement for settlement as a partner
or child of a T2 Minister of Religion
MOR 30.1. The applicant must be the partner or child of
a person (P) where one of the following applies:
(a) P is, at the same time, being granted settlement
as a T2 Minister of Religion; or
(b) P is settled or has become a British citizen,
providing P had permission as a T2 Minister of
Religion when they settled and the applicant either:
(i) had permission as P’s partner or child at that
time; or
(ii) is applying as a child of P and was born in the
UK before P settled.
MOR 30.2. If applying as a partner, the requirements of
Appendix Relationship with Partner must be met.
MOR 30.3. If applying as a child, the applicant must
meet the relationship requirement for settlement in
Appendix Children.
Age requirement for settlement as a child of a T2
Minister of Religion
MOR 31.1. DELETED.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-t2-minister-of-religion

Page 19 of 22

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix T2 Minister of Religion - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:40 am

MOR 31.2. DELETED.
Care requirement for settlement as a child of a T2
Minister of Religion
MOR 32.1. DELETED.
Requirements for settlement as a dependent child of
a T2 Minister of Religion
MOR 32A.1. The applicant must meet the following
requirements for a dependent child in Appendix
Children:
(a) care requirement; and
(b) age and independent life requirement.
Qualifying period requirement for settlement by a
partner of a T2 Minister of Religion
MOR 33.1. The applicant must have spent a continuous
period of 5 years in the UK with permission as a
dependent partner of the person (P) in MOR 30.1.
Continuous residence requirement for settlement as
a partner of a T2 Minister of Religion
MOR 34.1. The applicant must meet the continuous
resident requirement as set out in Appendix Continuous
residence during the period in MOR 33.1.
English language requirement for settlement as a
partner or child of a T2 Minister of Religion
MOR 35.1. Unless an exemption applies, the applicant
must:
(a) Where the date of application is before 26 March
2027, the applicant must, unless an exemption
applies, show English language ability on the
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-t2-minister-of-religion

Page 20 of 22

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix T2 Minister of Religion - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:40 am

Common European Framework of Reference for
Languages in speaking and listening to at least level
B1; or
(b) Where the date of application is on or after 26
March 2027, the applicant must, unless an
exemption applies, show English language ability on
the Common European Framework of Reference for
Languages in speaking and listening to at least level
B2.
MOR 35.2. The applicant must show they meet the
English language requirement as specified in Appendix
English Language.
Knowledge of life in the UK requirement for
settlement as a partner or child of a T2 Minister of
Religion
MOR 36.1. Unless an exemption applies, the applicant
must meet the Knowledge of Life in the UK requirement
as set out in Appendix KOL UK.
Decision on an application for settlement as a
partner or child of a T2 Minister of Religion
MOR 37.1. If the decision maker is satisfied all the
suitability and eligibility requirements are met for
settlement as a partner or child of a T2 Minister of
Religion, the application will be granted, otherwise the
application will be refused.
MOR 37.2. If the application is refused the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-t2-minister-of-religion

Page 21 of 22

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix T2 Minister of Religion - Guidance - GOV.UK

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-t2-minister-of-religion

07/05/2026, 11:40 am

© Crown copyright

Page 22 of 22

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Permi…or Victims of Human Trafficking or Slavery - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:59 am

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary
Permission to Stay for Victims of Human
Trafficking or Slavery
This route is to provide for temporary
permission to stay for victims of human
trafficking or slavery and their children.
The applicant must be in the UK.
A confirmed victim as classified in VTS 1.1 (a), who has
not been considered for permission to stay under this
route, need not apply under this route, as for those in
scope permission to stay will be automatically
considered following a positive Conclusive Grounds
decision. A confirmed victim who has been considered
previously for permission to stay under this route or the
Discretionary Leave for victims of Modern Slavery policy
and has been refused permission to stay cannot apply
or re-apply under this route.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appe…rary-permission-to-stay-for-victims-of-human-trafficking-or-slavery

Page 1 of 8

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Permi…or Victims of Human Trafficking or Slavery - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:59 am

Individuals who already have permission to stay as a
victim of human trafficking or slavery, or as their child
dependents, or who have been granted Modern Slavery
Discretionary Leave as a victim of human trafficking or
slavery, or as their child dependents can apply to extend
their permission under this route.
The suitability and eligibility requirements set out at VTS
2.1 and 3.1-3.4 below will apply both to first time
applicants under this route and those applying to extend
an existing grant of permission to stay under this route
or a grant of Modern Slavery discretionary leave that
has not expired.
This route is not a route to settlement.

Validity requirements for temporary
permission to stay as a victim of Human
Trafficking or Slavery
VTS 1.1. An applicant for an extension of temporary
permission to stay as a victim of Human Trafficking or
Slavery must meet the following validity requirements:
(a) the applicant must have been served with a
positive conclusive grounds decision (as defined by
Section 69 (1) of the Nationality and Borders Act
2022); and
(b) the applicant must have permission to stay as a
victim of Human Trafficking or Slavery, or as a child
of a victim of Human Trafficking or Slavery; and
(c) the applicant must apply using the correct
method as follows:
(i) if applying on the basis of VTS 3.1.(a) or VTS
3.1.(b) or any combination of VTS 3.1.(a)-(c), the
applicant must apply on the specified form on the
gov.uk website: FLR (HRO); or
(ii) if applying solely on the basis of VTS 3.1(c)
the applicant must apply directly to the relevant
Competent Authority as set out on the gov.uk
website: Temporary permission to stay for
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-app…rary-permission-to-stay-for-victims-of-human-trafficking-or-slavery

Page 2 of 8

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Permi…or Victims of Human Trafficking or Slavery - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:59 am

victims of human trafficking and slavery; and
(d) any required fee must have been paid; and
(e) the applicant must be in the UK on the date of
application.
VTS 1.2. A person is not required to apply as a victim of
Human Trafficking or Slavery but references to
“applicant” are to a person who is being considered
under this route or who has applied to extend their
existing permission to stay as a confirmed victim of
Human Trafficking or Slavery, or to extend their existing
grant of Modern Slavery Discretionary Leave.
VTS 1.3. Where no application is made because VTS
1.2 applies references to ‘date of application’ are to the
date of the conclusive grounds decision, but if the
person is applying to extend their permission to stay
under this route, the date of application is the date on
which they apply to extend their permission to stay
under this route.

Suitability requirements for temporary
permission to stay as a victim of Human
Trafficking or Slavery
VTS 2.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal as a
threat to public order (as defined in Section 63 of the
Nationality and Borders Act 2022), or as a person who
has claimed to be a victim of Human Trafficking or
Slavery in bad faith (as per Section 63 of the Nationality
and Borders Act 2022).
VTS 2.2. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.

Eligibility requirements for temporary
permission to stay as a victim of Human
Trafficking or Slavery
VTS 3.1. The requirements to be met by a person for
permission to stay on the grounds of being a confirmed
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-app…rary-permission-to-stay-for-victims-of-human-trafficking-or-slavery

Page 3 of 8

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Permi…or Victims of Human Trafficking or Slavery - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:59 am

victim of Human Trafficking or Slavery are (as set out in
Section 65 (2) (a) to (c) of the Nationality and Borders
Act 2022), that the grant of permission to stay is
necessary for the purpose of: (a) assisting the person in their recovery from any
physical or psychological harm arising from the
relevant exploitation; or
(b) enabling the person to seek compensation in
respect of the relevant exploitation, or
(c) enabling the person to co-operate with a public
authority in connection with an investigation or
criminal proceedings in respect of the relevant
exploitation.
VTS 3.2. For the purpose of VTS 3.1 the following
apply:
(a) “physical or psychological harm” means harm of
a type that results in physical trauma to the person;
or psychological harm that causes mental or
emotional trauma or that causes behavioural change
or physical symptoms that require psychological or
psychiatric care and where the physical or
psychological harm arises from the “relevant
exploitation”; and
(b) “assisting the person in their recovery” for
psychological or physical harm means that the
applicant requires support either through the
National Referral Mechanism or other services to
assist in their recovery from their exploitation (this
support does not need to accomplish recovery); and
(c) “seeking compensation” means that the person
must have made an application for compensation in
respect of the relevant exploitation; and
(d) “an investigation or criminal proceedings” means
an investigation by the public authorities or criminal
proceedings within the UK which has been
confirmed by the relevant public authority or by the
Criminal Prosecution Service; and
(e) “relevant exploitation” means the conduct
resulting in the positive conclusive grounds decision.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-app…rary-permission-to-stay-for-victims-of-human-trafficking-or-slavery

Page 4 of 8

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Permi…or Victims of Human Trafficking or Slavery - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:59 am

VTS 3.3. Permission to stay is not necessary for the
purpose of VTS 3.1(a), as set out in Section 65 (4) (a) of
the Nationality and Borders Act 2022:
(a) if the Secretary of State considers that the
applicant’s need for assistance is capable of being
met in a country or territory of which they are a
national or citizen; or one to which they may be
removed in accordance with an agreement between
that country or territory and the UK (which may be,
but does not need to be, an agreement
contemplated by Article 40(2) of the Trafficking
Convention).
VTS 3.4 Permission to stay is not necessary for the
purpose of VTS 3.1(b) as set out in Section 65 (4) (b) of
the Nationality and Borders Act 2022, if the applicant is
capable of seeking compensation from outside the UK,
and it would be reasonable for them to do so in the
circumstances.

Decision on an application for
temporary permission to stay as a
Victim of Human Trafficking or Slavery
VTS 4.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all of the
eligibility and suitability requirements are met the
applicant will be granted permission to stay in the UK,
otherwise the applicant will be refused permission to
stay.
VTS 4.2. A confirmed victim may request
reconsideration of the decision if their application is
refused. The individual will be notified of the process to
request a reconsideration with their refusal decision.

Period of grant for a victim of Human
Trafficking or Slavery
VTS 5.1. Permission to stay will be granted for a period
not exceeding 30 months when the Secretary of State
considers such permission is necessary for the
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-app…rary-permission-to-stay-for-victims-of-human-trafficking-or-slavery

Page 5 of 8

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Permi…or Victims of Human Trafficking or Slavery - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:59 am

purposes of VTS 3.1(a) or (c), and for a period not
exceeding 12 months where the Secretary of State
considers such permission is necessary for the
purposes of VTS 3.1(b).

Conditions of grant for a Victim of
Human Trafficking or Slavery
VTS 5.2. The grant will be subject to the following
conditions:
(a) access to public funds; and
(b) work is permitted; and
(c) study is permitted, subject to the ATAS condition
in Appendix ATAS.

Dependent child of the Victim of Human
Trafficking or Slavery (“a dependent
child”)
Validity requirements for temporary
permission to stay as a dependent child
of a Victim of Human Trafficking or
Slavery
VTS 6.1. In order to make an application, the dependent
child must be a child of an applicant who has or is at the
same time being granted temporary permission to stay
as a victim of Human Trafficking or Slavery, and meet
the following requirements:
(a) must be in the UK on the date of application; and
(b) must be aged under 18 at the date of application;
(c) if born in the UK, they must provide a full UK birth
certificate.
VTS 6.2. An application which does not meet the validity
requirements by a child of a person who is a Victim of
Human Trafficking or Slavery may be rejected as invalid
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-app…rary-permission-to-stay-for-victims-of-human-trafficking-or-slavery

Page 6 of 8

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Permi…or Victims of Human Trafficking or Slavery - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:59 am

and not considered.

Suitability requirements for temporary
permission to stay as a dependent child
of a Victim of Human Trafficking or
Slavery
VTS 7.1. The dependent child must not fall for refusal as
a threat to public order (as defined in Section 63 of the
Nationality and Borders Act 2022).

Decision on an application for a
dependent child of a Victim of Human
Trafficking or Slavery
VTS 8.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all the
validity and suitability requirements for the dependent
child of a victim of Human Trafficking or Slavery are
met, the application will be granted, otherwise the
application will be refused.

Period of grant for a dependent child of
a victim of Human Trafficking or Slavery
VTS 9.1. Permission to stay will be granted for a period
that ends on the same date as the permission of the
parent who has been or is being granted permission to
stay as a victim of Human Trafficking or Slavery.

Conditions of grant for a dependent
child of a Victim of Human Trafficking or
Slavery
VTS 9.2. The grant will be subject to all the following
conditions:
(a) access to public funds.
(b) work is permitted; and
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appe…rary-permission-to-stay-for-victims-of-human-trafficking-or-slavery

Page 7 of 8

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Permi…or Victims of Human Trafficking or Slavery - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:59 am

(c) study is permitted, subject to the ATAS condition
in Appendix ATAS (if the study will commence when
the child is aged 18 or over).

Cancellation of permission to stay for
Victims of Human Trafficking or Slavery
or the dependent child of a Victim of
Human Trafficking or Slavery
VTS 10.1. A person’s permission to stay as a victim of
Human Trafficking or Slavery or the child of a victim of
Human Trafficking or Slavery may be cancelled where
any of the following apply:
(a) the applicant would fall for refusal as a threat to
public order (as defined in Section 63 of the
Nationality and Borders Act 2022), or as a person
who has claimed to be a victim of Human Trafficking
or Slavery in bad faith (as per Section 63 of the
Nationality and Borders Act 2022).
(b) paragraphs SUI 2.2, SUI 3.2, SUI 4.2, SUI 5.2,
SUI 5.5, SUI 10.2, SUI 25.1, SUI 25.2, SUI 29.1, or
SUI 30.1. of Part Suitability apply.

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

© Crown copyright

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-app…rary-permission-to-stay-for-victims-of-human-trafficking-or-slavery

Page 8 of 8

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work - Charity Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:52 am

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work
- Charity Worker
The Charity Worker route is for a person
who wants to come to the UK to do
voluntary work for no more than 12 months.
The Temporary Work - Charity Worker route is for a
person who wants to come to the UK to do voluntary
work for up to a maximum of 12 months.
A partner and children can apply as dependants on this
route.
The Charity Worker route is not a route to settlement.

Validity requirements for a Charity

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-charity-worker

Page 1 of 13

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work - Charity Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:52 am

Validity requirements for a Charity
Worker
CW 1.1. A person applying for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a Charity Worker must apply
online on gov.uk on the specified form as follows:
Applicant

Specified form

EEA national
with a chipped
passport

Either:
•Temporary Worker using the UK
Immigration: ID Check app; or
• the forms listed below for
applicants outside or inside the UK
(as relevant)

Applicants
outside the UK

Temporary Worker visa

Applicants inside
the UK

Temporary Worker

CW 1.2. An application for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a Charity Worker must meet all
the following requirements:
(a) any fee and Immigration Health Charge must
have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other travel document which satisfactorily
establishes their identity and nationality; and
(d) the applicant must have a Certificate of
Sponsorship that was issued to them no more than 3
months before the date of application.
CW 1.3. The applicant must be aged 18 or over on the
date of application.
CW 1.4. If applying for permission to stay, the applicant
must be in the UK on the date of application.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-charity-worker

Page 2 of 13

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work - Charity Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:52 am

CW 1.4A. If applying for permission to stay, the
applicant must have, or have last had, permission as a
Charity Worker.
CW 1.5. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for a Charity Worker may be
rejected as invalid and not considered.

Suitability requirements for a Charity
Worker
CW 2.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
CW 2.2. If applying for permission to stay the applicant
must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.

Eligibility requirements for a Charity
Worker
Entry requirements for a Charity Worker
CW 3.1. A person seeking to come to the UK on the
Charity Worker route must have applied for and
obtained entry clearance as a Charity Worker before
they arrive in the UK.
CW 3.2. A person applying for entry clearance as a
Charity Worker must, if Appendix Tuberculosis applies,
provide a valid medical certificate confirming that they
have undergone screening for active pulmonary
tuberculosis and that this tuberculosis is not present in
them.
CW 3.3. An applicant for entry clearance must not have
had permission as a Religious Worker or Charity Worker
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-charity-worker

Page 3 of 13

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work - Charity Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:52 am

had permission as a Religious Worker or Charity Worker
at any time during the 12 months immediately before the
date of application unless they can show they were not
in the UK at any time during those 12 months.
Sponsorship requirement for a Charity Worker
CW 4.1. The applicant must have a valid Certificate of
Sponsorship for the job they are planning to do; which to
be valid must:
(a) confirm the applicant’s name, that they are being
sponsored as a Charity Worker, details of the job the
sponsor is offering them; and
(b) include a start date, stated by the sponsor, which
is no more than three months after the date of
application; and
(c) not have been used in a previous application
which was either granted or refused (but can have
been used in a previous application which was
rejected as invalid, made void or withdrawn); and
(d) not have been withdrawn by the sponsor or
cancelled by the Home Office; and
(e) include confirmation that the role meets the
requirement at CW 4.2.
CW 4.2. The sponsor must ensure the role meets the
following requirements:
(a) it is voluntary fieldwork which contributes directly
to the achievement or advancement of the sponsor’s
charitable purpose; and
(b) it must be voluntary work and not be paid or
otherwise remunerated, including receipt of benefits
in kind, except for reasonable expenses and the
provision of accommodation as is reasonable in the
circumstances as defined in the National Minimum
Wage Act 1988; and
(c) the applicant must not be filling a permanent
position, including on a temporary basis.
CW 4.3. The sponsor must be authorised by the Home
Office to sponsor the job in question under the Charity
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-charity-worker

Page 4 of 13

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work - Charity Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:52 am

Office to sponsor the job in question under the Charity
Worker route.
CW 4.4. The sponsor must be listed as A-rated on the
Home Office’s register of licensed sponsors, unless the
applicant was last granted permission as a Charity
Worker and is applying to continue working for the same
sponsor as in their last permission.
CW 4.5. The decision maker must not have reasonable
grounds to believe the job the applicant is being
sponsored to do does not comply with the National
Minimum Wage Regulations or the Working Time
Regulations.
Genuineness requirement for a Charity Worker
CW 5.1. The applicant must:
(a) genuinely intend, and be able, to undertake the
role for which they are being sponsored; and
(b) not intend to undertake employment other than in
the role for which they are being sponsored, or as
otherwise permitted by paragraph CW 8.3.
Financial Requirement for a Charity Worker
CW 6.1. If the applicant is applying for permission to
stay and has been in the UK with permission for 12
months or longer on the date of application, they will
meet the financial requirement and do not need to show
funds.
CW 6.2. If the applicant is applying for entry clearance,
or is applying for permission to stay and has been in the
UK for less than 12 months on the date of application,
either:
(a) the applicant must have funds of at least £1,270;
or
(b) the applicant’s A rated sponsor must confirm on
the Certificate of Sponsorship that they will, if it is
necessary, maintain and accommodate the applicant
up to the end of the first month of their employment
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-charity-worker

Page 5 of 13

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work - Charity Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:52 am

up to the end of the first month of their employment
for an amount of at least £1,270.
CW 6.3. If CW 6.2.(a) applies, the applicant must show
that they have held the required level of funds for a 28day period and as specified in Appendix Finance.

Decision on an application as a Charity
Worker
CW 7.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all the
suitability and eligibility requirements for the Charity
Worker route are met, the application will be granted,
otherwise the application will be refused.
CW 7.2. If the application is refused, the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.
Period of grant for a Charity Worker
CW 8.1. If the application is for entry clearance, the
applicant will be granted whichever is the shorter of:
(a) the period of the job on the Certificate of
Sponsorship plus 14 days before and after; or
(b) 12 months.
CW 8.2. If the application is for permission to stay, the
applicant will be granted whichever is the shorter of:
(a) the period of the job on the Certificate of
Sponsorship plus 14 days; or
(b) the difference between the period the applicant
has already spent in the UK since their last grant of
permission as a Charity Worker and 12 months.
Conditions of grant for a Charity Worker
CW 8.3. The grant will be subject to all the following
conditions:
(a) no access to public funds; and
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-charity-worker

Page 6 of 13

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work - Charity Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:52 am

(b) work is permitted only in the role the applicant is
being sponsored for; and
(c) voluntary work with another organisation is
permitted, providing it is in the same role as the one
listed on the Certificate of Sponsorship; and
(d) study is permitted, subject to the ATAS condition
in Appendix ATAS.
(e) DELETED.

Dependants of a Charity Worker
Validity requirements for a dependent partner or
dependent child of a Charity Worker
CW 9.1. A person applying for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a dependent partner or dependent
child of a Charity Worker must apply online on the
gov.uk website on the specified form as follows:
Applicant

Specified form

EEA
national
with a
chipped
passport

Either (as applicable):
• Dependant partner or dependant child
using the UK Immigration: ID Check app;
or
• the forms listed below for dependant
applicants outside or inside the UK as
relevant.

Applicants
outside
the UK

Dependant partner visa
Dependant child visa

Applicants
inside the
UK

If the dependant is applying at the same
time as the Charity Worker, they can be
included in the form Temporary Worker
where the form allows dependants to be
added. Otherwise:
- Dependant partner
- Dependant child

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-charity-worker

Page 7 of 13

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work - Charity Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:52 am

CW 9.2. An application for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a partner or child of a Charity
Worker must meet all the following requirements:
(a) any fee and Immigration Health Charge must
have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other travel document which satisfactorily
establishes their identity and nationality; and
(d) the applicant must be applying as a partner or
child of a person who:
(i) has made a valid application for entry
clearance or permission to stay on the Charity
Worker route that has not been decided; or
(ii) has entry clearance or permission to stay on
the Charity Worker route.
CW 9.3. An applicant applying as a dependent partner
must be aged 18 or over on the date of application.
CW 9.4. If applying for permission to stay, the applicant
must be in the UK on the date of application.
CW 9.4ZA. If applying for permission to stay, the
applicant must not have, or have last been granted,
permission:
(a) as a Visitor; or
(b) as a Short-term Student; or
(c) as a Parent of a Child Student; or
(d) as a Seasonal Worker; or
(e) as a Domestic Worker in a Private Household; or
(f) outside the Immigration Rules.
CW 9.4A. An applicant who is applying for permission to
stay and has, or last had, permission as a Student, must
fulfil one of the Conditions A or B below on the date of
application:
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-charity-worker

Page 8 of 13

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work - Charity Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:52 am

(a) Condition A: the applicant must have completed
the course of study for which the Confirmation of
Acceptance for Studies was assigned (or a course to
which ST 27.3 of Appendix Student applies); or
(b) Condition B: the applicant must:
(i) be studying a full-time course of study leading
to the award of a PhD with a higher education
provider which has a track record of compliance;
and
(ii) have completed at least 24 months of study
on that course.
CW 9.5. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for a partner or child of a Charity
Worker may be rejected as invalid and not considered.
Suitability requirements for a dependent partner or
dependent child of a Charity Worker
CW 10.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
CW 10.2. If applying for permission to stay the applicant
must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.
Eligibility requirements for a dependent partner or
dependent child of a Charity Worker
Entry requirement for a dependent partner or
dependent child of a Charity Worker
CW 11.1. A person seeking to come to the UK as a
dependent partner or dependent child of a Charity
Worker must apply for and obtain entry clearance as a
dependent partner or dependent child of a Charity
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-charity-worker

Page 9 of 13

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work - Charity Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:52 am

dependent partner or dependent child of a Charity
Worker before they arrive in the UK.
CW 11.2. A person applying for entry clearance as the
partner or child of a Charity Worker must, if Appendix
Tuberculosis applies, provide a valid medical certificate
confirming that they have undergone screening for
active pulmonary tuberculosis and that this tuberculosis
is not present in them.
Relationship requirement for a dependent partner of
a Charity Worker
CW 12.1. The applicant must be the partner of a person
(P) where one of the following applies:
(a) P has permission on the Charity Worker route; or
(b) P is, at the same time, applying for (and is
granted) entry clearance or permission on the
Charity Worker route.
CW 12.2. The requirements of Appendix Relationship
with Partner must be met.
CW 12.3. DELETED.
CW 12.4. DELETED.
Relationship requirement for a dependent child of a
Charity Worker
CW 13.1. DELETED.
CW 13.2. DELETED.
CW 13.3. DELETED.
Care requirement for a dependent child of a Charity
Worker
CW 14.1. DELETED.
Age requirement for a dependent child of a Charity
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-charity-worker

Page 10 of 13

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work - Charity Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:52 am

Age requirement for a dependent child of a Charity
Worker
CW 15.1. DELETED.
CW 15.2. DELETED.
Requirements for a dependent child of a Charity
Worker
CW 15A.1. The applicant must meet the following
requirements for a dependent child in Appendix
Children:
(a) relationship requirement: entry clearance and
permission to stay; and
(b) care requirement; and
(c) age and independent life requirement.
Financial requirement for a dependent partner or
dependent child of a Charity Worker
CW 16.1. If the applicant is applying for permission to
stay and has been living in the UK with permission for
12 months or longer on the date of application, they will
meet the financial requirement and do not need to show
funds.
CW 16.2. If the applicant is applying for entry clearance,
or has been in the UK for less than 12 months on the
date of application, either:
(a) funds of at least the amount required in CW 16.3.
must be held collectively by one or more of the
following:
i) the applicant; and
ii) the Charity Worker (P); and
iii) if the applicant is applying as a dependent
child, their parent who is lawfully present in the
UK or being granted entry clearance, or
permission to stay, at the same time; or
(b) the Charity Worker’s A-rated sponsor must certify
that they will, if necessary, maintain and
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-charity-worker

Page 11 of 13

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work - Charity Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:52 am

that they will, if necessary, maintain and
accommodate the dependent partner and/or any
dependent child as well as the Charity Worker, up to
the end of the first month of each of their grants of
permission, to at least the amounts required in CW
16.3.
CW 16.3. The funds required are:
(a) £285 for a dependent partner in the UK, or
applying for entry clearance; and
(b) £315 for the first dependent child in the UK, or
applying for entry clearance; and
(c) £200 for any other dependent child in the UK, or
applying for entry clearance.
CW 16.4. If CW 16.2.(a) applies, the funds held for the
applicant must be held in addition to any funds required
for the Charity Worker to meet the financial requirement
and any other dependants in the UK or applying at the
same time.
CW 16.5. If CW 16.2.(a) applies, the funds must have
been held for a 28-day period and as specified in
Appendix Finance.
Decision on an application as a dependent partner
or dependent child of a Charity Worker
CW 17.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all the
suitability and eligibility requirements for a dependent
partner or dependent child of a Charity Worker are met,
the application will be granted, otherwise the application
will be refused.
CW 17.2. If the application is refused, the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.
Period of grant for a dependent partner or
dependent child of a Charity Worker
CW 18.1. A partner will be granted permission which
ends on the same date as their partner’s permission as
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-charity-worker

Page 12 of 13

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work - Charity Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:52 am

ends on the same date as their partner’s permission as
a Charity Worker.
CW 18.2. A child will be granted permission which ends
on the same date as whichever of their parents’
permission ends first.
Conditions of grant for a dependent partner or
dependent child of a Charity Worker
CW 18.3. The grant will be subject to all the following
conditions:
(a) no access to public funds; and
(b) work (including self-employment and voluntary
work) is permitted, except as a professional
sportsperson (including as a sports coach); and
(c) study is permitted, subject to the ATAS condition
in Appendix ATAS if the applicant is over the age of
18.
(d) DELETED.

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-charity-worker

© Crown copyright

Page 13 of 13

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work – Creative Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:50 am

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work
– Creative Worker
The Temporary Work - Creative Worker
route is for a person who wants to work
within the creative sector.
The Temporary Work - Creative Worker route is for a
person who wants to come to the UK to work within the
creative sector.
A Creative Worker is someone who can make a unique
contribution to the UK’s rich cultural life, for example, as
an artist, dancer, musician or entertainer, or as a model
contributing to the UK’s fashion industry.
A person can be granted permission for up to 12 months
initially and can apply to extend their stay up to a
maximum of two years if they are still working for the
same sponsor.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-creative-worker

Page 1 of 16

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work – Creative Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:50 am

A partner and children can apply as dependants on this
route.
The Creative Worker route is not a route to settlement.

Validity requirements for a Creative
Worker
CRV 1.1. A person applying for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a Creative Worker must apply
online on gov.uk on the specified form as follows:
Applicant

Specified form

EEA national
with a chipped
passport

Either:
• Temporary Worker using the UK
Immigration: ID Check app; or
• the forms listed below for
applicants outside or inside the UK
(as relevant)

Applicants
outside the UK

Temporary Worker visa

Applicants inside
the UK

Temporary Worker

CRV 1.2. An application for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a Creative Worker must meet all
the following requirements:
(a) any fee and Immigration Health Charge must
have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other travel document which satisfactorily
establishes their identity and nationality; and
(d) the applicant must have a Certificate of
Sponsorship that was issued to them no more than
three months before the date of application.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-creative-worker

Page 2 of 16

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work – Creative Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:50 am

CRV 1.3. If applying for permission to stay, the applicant
must be in the UK on the date of application.
CRV 1.3A. If applying for permission to stay, the
applicant must have, or have last had, permission as a
Creative Worker.
CRV 1.4. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for a Creative Worker may be
rejected as invalid and not considered.

Suitability requirements for a Creative
Worker
CRV 2.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
CRV 2.2. If applying for permission to stay the applicant
must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.

Eligibility requirements for a Creative
Worker
Entry requirements for a Creative Worker
CRV 3.1. A person seeking to come to the UK as a
Creative Worker must have applied for and obtained
entry clearance as a Creative Worker before they arrive
in the UK, except where CRV 3.2. applies.
CRV 3.2. A person arriving in the UK who is seeking
entry as a Creative Worker and does not have a valid
entry clearance on that route may be granted
permission to enter if the following requirements are
met:
(a) the applicant is not a visa national; and
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-creative-worker

Page 3 of 16

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work – Creative Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:50 am

(aa) has, where required under Appendix Electronic
Travel Authorisation, obtained an Electronic Travel
Authorisation before travelling to the UK.; and
(b) the applicant has a valid Certificate of
Sponsorship from an approved sponsor for the
Creative Worker route; and
(c) if the applicant has consecutive engagements,
the total length of all the periods of engagement,
together with any gap between those engagements,
is three months or less; and
(d) if the applicant does not have consecutive
engagements, the total length of the period of
engagement is three months or less; and
(e) the person otherwise meets the requirements to
be granted permission as a Creative Worker.
CRV 3.3. A person applying for entry clearance as a
Creative Worker must, if Appendix Tuberculosis applies,
provide a valid medical certificate confirming that they
have undergone screening for active pulmonary
tuberculosis and that this tuberculosis is not present in
them.

Sponsorship requirement for a Creative
Worker
CRV 4.1. The applicant must have a valid Certificate of
Sponsorship for the job they are planning to do; which to
be valid must:
(a) confirm the applicant’s name, that they are being
sponsored as a Creative Worker, and details of the
job and pay the sponsor is offering them confirming
that these arrangements comply with the National
Minimum Wage; and
(b) include a start date, stated by the sponsor, which
is no more than 3 months after the date of
application; and
(c) not have been used in a previous application
which was either granted or refused (but can have
been used in a previous application which was
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-creative-worker

Page 4 of 16

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work – Creative Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:50 am

rejected as invalid, made void or withdrawn); and
(d) not have been withdrawn by the sponsor or
cancelled by the Home Office; and
(e) confirm that the role meets the relevant
requirements at CRV 4.2.
CRV 4.2. The sponsor must demonstrate that:
(a) the details of the occupation the applicant will be
doing comply with the relevant Code of Practice
under Appendix Creative Workers Codes of Practice
where one exists for that occupation; or
(b) where there is no relevant Code of Practice
under Appendix Creative Workers Codes of Practice
for the occupation the applicant will be doing, the
applicant will:
(i) be performing a role in the creative industries
that appears in Appendix Skilled Occupations;
and
(ii) make a unique contribution to creative life in
the UK.
CRV 4.3. If the Certificate of Sponsorship records that
the applicant is being sponsored for more than one
engagement by the same sponsor, there must be no
more than 14 days between each individual
engagement. Time spent by the applicant outside the
UK (including the dates of their departure from and
return to the UK) will not be counted towards this period.
CRV 4.4. If the applicant has consecutive engagements,
each sponsor must assign its own Certificate of
Sponsorship to the applicant, and each Certificate of
Sponsorship must meet the requirements in CRV 4.1. to
CRV 4.3.
CRV 4.5. The sponsor must operate or intend to operate
within the creative sector and be authorised by the
Home Office to sponsor the job in question under the
Creative Worker route.
CRV 4.6. The sponsor must be listed as A-rated on the
Home Office’s register of licensed sponsors, unless the
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-creative-worker

Page 5 of 16

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work – Creative Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:50 am

applicant was last granted permission as a Creative
Worker and is applying to continue working for the same
sponsor as in their last permission.
CRV 4.7. The decision maker must not have reasonable
grounds to believe the job the applicant is being
sponsored to do does not comply with the National
Minimum Wage Regulations or the Working Time
Regulations.
CRV 4.8. The applicant must provide details of any
transport, living allowances and other expenses paid by
the sponsor or any other person or organisation to the
applicant and whether the sponsor will seek to recoup
these costs, either through payroll deductions or any
other means.
CRV 4.9. If the Certificate of Sponsorship associated
with the application is declared part of a group by the
sponsor and the work of the applicant is directly related
to the employment of an entertainer or a cultural artist
whose application has been refused, all applications
within the group will be refused.
CRV 4.10. The applicant must not be filling a permanent
position, including on a temporary basis.
Genuineness requirement for a Creative Worker
CRV 5.1. The applicant must:
(a) genuinely intend, and be able, to undertake the
role for which they are being sponsored; and
(b) not intend to undertake employment other than in
the role for which they are being sponsored, or as
otherwise permitted by paragraph CRV 9.5.
Financial requirement for a Creative Worker
CRV 6.1. If the applicant is applying for permission to
stay and has been in the UK with permission for 12
months or longer on the date of application, they will
meet the financial requirement and do not need to show
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-creative-worker

Page 6 of 16

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work – Creative Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:50 am

funds.
CRV 6.2. If the applicant is applying for entry clearance,
or is applying for permission to enter under CRV 3.2, or
is applying for permission to stay and has been in the
UK for less than 12 months on the date of application,
either:
(a) the applicant must have funds of at least £1,270;
or
(b) the applicant’s A rated sponsor must confirm on
the Certificate of Sponsorship that they will, if it is
necessary, maintain and accommodate the applicant
up to the end of the first month of their employment
for an amount of at least £1,270.
CRV 6.3. If CRV 6.2.(a) applies, the applicant must
show that they have held the required level of funds for
a 28-day period and as specified in Appendix Finance.
Parental consent requirement for a Creative Worker
CRV 7.1. The applicant must meet the parental consent
requirement for “applicant not applying as a dependent
child” in Appendix Children.
CRV 7.2. DELETED.

Decision on an application as a Creative
Worker
CRV 8.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all the
suitability and eligibility requirements for the Creative
Worker route are met, the application will be granted,
otherwise the application will be refused.
CRV 8.2. If the application is refused, the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.
Period of grant for a Creative Worker
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-creative-worker

Page 7 of 16

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work – Creative Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:50 am

CRV 9.1. If the application is for entry clearance, the
applicant will be granted whichever is the shorter of:
(a) a period starting 14 days before the first
engagement and ending 14 days after the final
engagement, if the applicant has consecutive
engagements; or
(b) the period of the job on the Certificate of
Sponsorship plus 14 days before and after, if the
applicant does not have consecutive engagements;
or
(c) 12 months.
CRV 9.2. If the application is for permission to enter, in
accordance with CRV 3.2, the applicant will be granted
permission to enter for whichever is the shorter of:
(a) a period starting up to 14 days before the first
engagement and ending 14 days after the final
engagement, if the applicant has consecutive
engagements; or
(b) the period of the job on the Certificate of
Sponsorship plus up to 14 days before and 14 days
after, if the applicant does not have consecutive
engagements; or
(c) 3 months.
CRV 9.3. Unless CRV 9.4. applies, if the application is
for permission to stay, the applicant will be granted
whichever is the shorter of:
(a) a period ending 14 days after the final
engagement, if the applicant has consecutive
engagements; or
(b) the period of the job on the Certificate of
Sponsorship plus 14 days, if the applicant does not
have consecutive engagements; or
(c) the difference between the period the applicant
has already spent in the UK as a Creative Worker
and 12 months.
CRV 9.4. If the applicant is applying for permission to
stay and the sponsor is the same sponsor as in the
application which led to the applicant’s last grant of
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-creative-worker

Page 8 of 16

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work – Creative Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:50 am

permission, the applicant will be granted whichever is
the shorter of:
(a) a period ending 14 days after the final
engagement, if the applicant has consecutive
engagements; or
(b) the period of the job on the Certificate of
Sponsorship plus 14 days, if the applicant does not
have consecutive engagements; or
(c) 12 months; or
(d) the difference between the period the applicant
has already spent in the UK as a Creative Worker
and 24 months.

Conditions of grant for a Creative
Worker
CRV 9.5. The grant will be subject to all the following
conditions:
(a) no access to public funds; and
(b) work is permitted only in the role(s) the applicant
is being sponsored for; and
(c) supplementary employment is permitted; and
(d) study is permitted, subject to the ATAS condition
in Appendix ATAS.
(e) DELETED.

Dependants of a Creative Worker
Validity requirements for a dependent partner or
dependent child of a Creative Worker
CRV 10.1. A person applying for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a dependent partner or dependent
child of a Creative Worker must apply online on the
gov.uk website on the specified form as follows:
Applicant

Specified form

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-creative-worker

Page 9 of 16

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work – Creative Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

EEA
national
with a
chipped
passport

Either (as applicable):
• Dependant partner or dependant child
using the UK Immigration: ID Check app;
or
• the forms listed below for dependant
applicants outside or inside the UK as
relevant.

Applicants
outside
the UK

Dependant partner visa
Dependant child visa

Applicants
inside the
UK

If the dependant is applying at the same
time as the Creative Worker, they can be
included in the form Temporary Worker
where the form allows dependants to be
added. Otherwise:
- Dependant partner
- Dependant child

07/05/2026, 11:50 am

CRV 10.2. An application for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a partner or child of a Creative
Worker must meet all the following requirements:
(a) any fee and Immigration Health Charge must
have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other travel document which satisfactorily
establishes their identity and nationality; and
(d) the applicant must be applying as a partner or
child of person who:
(i) has made a valid application for entry
clearance or permission to stay on the Creative
Worker route that has not been decided; or
(ii) has entry clearance or permission to stay on
the Creative Worker route.
CRV 10.3. An applicant applying as a dependent
partner must be aged 18 or over on the date of
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-creative-worker

Page 10 of 16

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work – Creative Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:50 am

application.
CRV 10.4. If applying for permission to stay, the
applicant must be in the UK on the date of application.
CRV 10.4ZA. If applying for permission to stay, the
applicant must not have, or have last been granted,
permission:
(a) as a Visitor; or
(b) as a Short-term Student; or
(c) as a Parent of a Child Student; or
(d) as a Seasonal Worker; or
(e) as a Domestic Worker in a Private Household; or
(f) outside the Immigration Rules.
CRV 10.4A. An applicant who is applying for permission
to stay and has, or last had, permission as a Student,
must fulfil one of the Conditions A or B below on the
date of application:
(a) Condition A: the applicant must have completed
the course of study for which the Confirmation of
Acceptance for Studies was assigned (or a course to
which ST 27.3 of Appendix Student applies); or
(b) Condition B: the applicant must:
(i) be studying a full-time course of study leading
to the award of a PhD with a higher education
provider which has a track record of compliance;
and
(ii) have completed at least 24 months of study
on that course.
CRV 10.5. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for a partner or child of a Creative
Worker may be rejected as invalid and not considered.
Suitability requirements for a dependent partner or
dependent child of a Creative Worker
CRV 11.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-creative-worker

Page 11 of 16

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work – Creative Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:50 am

Part Suitability.
CRV 11.2. If applying for permission to stay the
applicant must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.
Eligibility requirements for a dependent partner or
dependent child of a Creative Worker
Entry requirement for a dependent partner or
dependent child of a Creative Worker
CRV 12.1. A person seeking to come to the UK as a
dependent partner or dependent child of a Creative
Worker must apply for and obtain entry clearance as a
dependent partner or dependent child of a Creative
Worker before they arrive in the UK, unless CRV 12.2.
applies.
CRV 12.2. A person arriving in the UK and seeking entry
as a dependent partner or dependent child of a Creative
Worker who does not have a valid entry clearance may
be granted permission to enter if the following
requirements are met:
(a) the applicant is not a visa national; and
(aa) the applicant has obtained an Electronic Travel
Authorisation; and
(b) the applicant is seeking entry at the same time
as the person they are a dependant of, and who
meets the requirements at CRV 3.2.; and
(c) the applicant meets the requirements to be
granted permission as a dependent partner or
dependent child of a Creative Worker.
CRV 12.3. A person applying for entry clearance as the
partner or child of a Creative Worker must, if Appendix
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-creative-worker

Page 12 of 16

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work – Creative Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:50 am

Tuberculosis applies, provide a valid medical certificate
confirming that they have undergone screening for
active pulmonary tuberculosis and that this tuberculosis
is not present in them.
Relationship requirement for a dependent partner of
a Creative Worker
CRV 13.1. The applicant must be the partner of a
person (P) where one of the following applies:
(a) P has permission on the Creative Worker route;
or
(b) P is, at the same time, applying for (and is
granted) entry clearance or permission on the
Creative Worker route.
CRV 13.2. The requirements of Appendix Relationship
with Partner must be met.
CRV 13.3. DELETED.
CRV 13.4. DELETED.
Relationship requirement for a dependent child of a
Creative Worker
CRV 14.1. DELETED.
CRV 14.2. DELETED.
CRV 14.3. DELETED.
Care requirement for a dependent child of a Creative
Worker
CRV 15.1. DELETED.
Age requirement for a dependent child of a Creative
Worker
CRV 16.1. DELETED.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-creative-worker

Page 13 of 16

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work – Creative Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:50 am

CRV 16.2. DELETED.
Requirements for a dependent child of a Creative
Worker
CRV 16A.1. The applicant must meet the following
requirements for a dependent child in Appendix
Children:
(a) relationship requirement: entry clearance and
permission to stay; and
(b) care requirement; and
(c) age and independent life requirement.
Financial requirement for a dependent partner or
dependent child of a Creative Worker
CRV 17.1. If the applicant is applying for permission to
stay and has been living in the UK with permission for
12 months or longer on the date of application, they will
meet the financial requirement and do not need to show
funds.
CRV 17.2. If the applicant is applying for entry clearance
or permission to enter, or has been in the UK for less
than 12 months on the date of application, either:
(a) funds of at least the amount required in CRV
17.3. must be held collectively by one or more of the
following:
(i) the applicant; and
(ii) the Creative Worker (P); and
(iii) if the applicant is applying as a dependent
child, their parent who is lawfully present in the
UK or being granted entry clearance, or
permission, at the same time; or
(b) the Creative Worker’s A-rated sponsor must
certify that they will, if necessary, maintain and
accommodate the dependent partner and/or any
dependent child as well as the Creative Worker, up
to the end of the first month of each of their grants of
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-creative-worker

Page 14 of 16

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work – Creative Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:50 am

permission, to at least the amounts required in CRV
17.3.
CRV 17.3. The funds required are:
(a) £285 for a partner in the UK, or applying for entry
clearance or permission to enter; and
(b) £315 for the first dependent child in the UK, or
applying for entry clearance or permission to enter;
and
(c) £200 for any other dependent child in the UK, or
applying for entry clearance or permission to enter.
CRV 17.4. If CRV 17.2.(a) applies, the funds held for the
applicant must be held in addition to any funds required
for the Creative Worker to meet the financial
requirement and any other dependants in the UK or
applying at the same time.
CRV 17.5. If CRV 17.2.(a) applies, the funds must have
been held for a 28-day period and as specified in
Appendix Finance.
Decision on an application as a dependent partner
or dependent child of a Creative Worker
CRV 18.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all the
suitability and eligibility requirements for a dependent
partner or dependent child of a Creative Worker are
met, the application will be granted, otherwise the
application will be refused.
CRV 18.2. If the application is refused, the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.
Period of grant for a dependent partner or
dependent child of a Creative Worker
CRV 19.1. A partner will be granted permission which
ends on the same date as their partner’s permission as
a Creative Worker.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-creative-worker

Page 15 of 16

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work – Creative Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:50 am

CRV 19.2. A child will be granted permission which ends
on the same date as whichever of their parents’
permission ends first.
Conditions of grant for a dependent partner or
dependent child of a Creative Worker
CRV 19.3. The grant will be subject to all the following
conditions:
(a) no access to public funds; and
(b) work (including self-employment and voluntary
work) is permitted, except as a professional
sportsperson (including as a sports coach); and
(c) study is permitted, subject to the ATAS condition
in Appendix ATAS if the applicant is over the age of
18.
(d) DELETED.

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-creative-worker

© Crown copyright

Page 16 of 16

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work – Government Authorised Exchange - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:53 am

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work
– Government Authorised Exchange
The Temporary Work - Government
Authorised Exchange route is for a person
who wants to come to the UK on an
approved scheme for a period of 12 or 24
months (depending on the scheme).
A partner and children can apply as dependants on this
route.
The Government Authorised Exchange route is not a
route to settlement.

Validity requirements for the
Government Authorised Exchange route
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-government-authorised-exchange

Page 1 of 16

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work – Government Authorised Exchange - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:53 am

GAE 1.1. A person applying for entry clearance or
permission to stay on the Government Authorised
Exchange route must apply online on the gov.uk website
on the specified form ‘Temporary Work – Government
Authorised Exchange Scheme’.
GAE 1.2. An application for entry clearance or
permission to stay on the Government Authorised
Exchange route must meet all the following
requirements:
(a) any fee and Immigration Health Charge must
have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other travel document which satisfactorily
establishes their identity and nationality; and
(d) the applicant must have a Certificate of
Sponsorship that was issued to them no more than 3
months (or 90 days, where the Certificate of
Sponsorship is linked to a Sponsorship Reference
Number, disregarding any days during which an edit
requested by a sponsor to their Sponsor a Worker
submission is being reviewed) before the date of
application.
GAE 1.3. If the applicant has in the last 12 months
before the date of application received an award from a
Government or international scholarship agency
covering both fees and maintenance, they must provide
written consent to the application from that Government
or agency.
GAE 1.4. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for the Government Authorised
Exchange route may be rejected as invalid and not
considered.

Suitability requirements for the
Government Authorised Exchange route
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-government-authorised-exchange

Page 2 of 16

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work – Government Authorised Exchange - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:53 am

GAE 2.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
GAE 2.2. If applying for permission to stay the applicant
must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.

Eligibility requirements for the
Government Authorised Exchange route
Entry requirements for the Government Authorised
Exchange route
GAE 3.1. A person seeking to come to the UK on the
Government Authorised Exchange route must have
applied for and obtained entry clearance on the
Government Authorised Exchange route before they
arrive in the UK.
GAE 3.2. A person applying for entry clearance on the
Government Authorised Exchange route must, if
Appendix Tuberculosis applies, provide a valid medical
certificate confirming that they have undergone
screening for active pulmonary tuberculosis and that this
tuberculosis is not present in them.
Previous permission requirement for the
Government Authorised Exchange route
GAE 4.1. An applicant who is applying for permission to
stay must be in the UK on the date of application and
must have, or have last been granted:
(a) permission on the Government Authorised
Exchange route; or
(b) permission as a Student, who meets the
requirements in GAE 4.2. and who is or was last
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-government-authorised-exchange

Page 3 of 16

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work – Government Authorised Exchange - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:53 am

sponsored by either:
(i) a higher education provider with a track record
of compliance; or
(ii) an overseas higher education institution, to
do a short-term study abroad programme in the
UK.
GAE 4.2. Where the applicant has, or last had,
permission as a Student:
(a) the applicant must have completed a UK
recognised bachelor’s or postgraduate degree
during that last period of permission; and
(b) the applicant must currently be sponsored for
either:
(i) a period of postgraduate professional training
or work experience which is required to gain a
professional qualification or registration in the
same field as their degree; or
(ii) an internship for up to 12 months which is
directly related to their degree; and
(c) the applicant must not be filling a permanent
vacancy; and
(d) the sponsor must not intend to employ the
applicant in the UK once the training or work
experience is completed.
Sponsorship requirement for the Government
Authorised Exchange route
GAE 5.1. The applicant must have a valid Certificate of
Sponsorship for the job they are planning to do; which to
be valid must:
(a) confirm the applicant’s name, that they are being
sponsored on the Government Authorised Exchange
route, details of the job and salary the sponsor is
offering them, and that these arrangements comply
with the National Minimum Wage; and
(b) include a start date, stated by the sponsor, which
is no more than three months after the date of
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-government-authorised-exchange

Page 4 of 16

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work – Government Authorised Exchange - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:53 am

application; and
(c) not have been used in a previous application
which was either granted or refused (but can have
been used in a previous application which was
rejected as invalid, made void or withdrawn); and
(d) not have been withdrawn by the sponsor or
cancelled by the Home Office; and
(e) confirm that the role meets the requirements of
the individual exchange scheme as set out in
Appendix GAE schemes; and
(f) confirm that the role is supernumerary, such that
it is in addition to the host employer’s regular,
required, or standard number of staff and does not
fill a permanent position or ongoing vacancy in the
relevant organisation’s workforce, even on a
temporary basis (with a full explanation of why it is
supernumerary); and
(g) confirm that the role appears in Tables 1, 1a, 2,
2aa, 3 or 3a of Appendix Skilled Occupations; and
(h) confirm whether the Academic Technology
Approval Scheme (ATAS) requirement in Appendix
ATAS applies.
GAE 5.2. The sponsor must be authorised by the Home
Office to sponsor individuals in the role specified on the
Certificate of Sponsorship and on the particular scheme
that the applicant has applied to participate in (as set
out in Appendix GAE schemes).
GAE 5.3. The sponsor must be listed as A-rated on the
Home Office’s register of licensed sponsors, unless the
applicant was last granted permission on the
Government Authorised Exchange route and is applying
to continue working for the same sponsor as in their last
permission.
GAE 5.4. The decision maker must not have reasonable
grounds to believe the job the applicant is being
sponsored to do does not comply with the National
Minimum Wage Regulations or the Working Time
Regulations.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-government-authorised-exchange

Page 5 of 16

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work – Government Authorised Exchange - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:53 am

Genuineness requirement for the Government
Authorised Exchange route
GAE 6.1. The applicant must:
(a) genuinely intend, and be able, to undertake the
role for which they are being sponsored; and
(b) not intend to undertake employment other than in
the role for which they are being sponsored, or as
otherwise permitted by paragraph GAE 11.3.
ATAS requirement for the Government Authorised
Exchange route
GAE 7.1. If the ATAS requirement in Appendix ATAS
applies, the applicant must provide a valid ATAS
certificate.
Financial Requirement for the Government
Authorised Exchange route
GAE 8.1. If the applicant is applying for permission to
stay and has been in the UK with permission for 12
months or longer on the date of application, they will
meet the financial requirement and do not need to show
funds.
GAE 8.2. If the applicant is applying for entry clearance,
or is applying for permission to stay and has been in the
UK for less than 12 months on the date of application,
either:
(a) the applicant must have funds of at least £1,270;
or
(b) the applicant’s A rated sponsor must confirm on
the Certificate of Sponsorship that they will, if it is
necessary, maintain and accommodate the applicant
up to the end of the first month of their employment
for an amount of at least £1,270.
GAE 8.3. If GAE 8.2. applies the applicant must show
that they have held the required level of funds for a 28https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-government-authorised-exchange

Page 6 of 16

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work – Government Authorised Exchange - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:53 am

day period and as specified in Appendix Finance.
Parental consent requirement for the Government
Authorised Exchange route
GAE 9.1. The applicant must meet the parental consent
requirement for applicant not applying as a dependent
child in Appendix Children.
GAE 9.2. DELETED.

Decision on an application for the
Government Authorised Exchange route
GAE 10.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all the
suitability and eligibility requirements for the
Government Authorised Exchange route are met, the
application will be granted, otherwise the application will
be refused.
GAE 10.2. If the application is refused, the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.
Period of grant for the Government Authorised
Exchange route
GAE 11.1. If the application is for entry clearance, the
applicant will be granted for the period of the role on the
Certificate of Sponsorship plus up to 14 days before and
14 days after that period (the end date of the Certificate
of Sponsorship may be up to the maximum period of
time that a person is permitted to spend in the UK under
the terms of the specific scheme on which the applicant
has applied to participate in, as set out in Appendix GAE
schemes).
GAE 11.2. If the application is for permission to stay, the
applicant will be granted for whichever is the shortest of:
(a) the period of the role on the Certificate of
Sponsorship plus 14 days after that period (the end
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-government-authorised-exchange

Page 7 of 16

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work – Government Authorised Exchange - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:53 am

date of the Certificate of Sponsorship may be up to
the maximum period of time permitted under the
terms of the specific scheme on which the applicant
has applied to participate in, as set out in Appendix
GAE schemes); or
(b) where the applicant is applying to continue to
participate in the same scheme, a period of 14 days
plus the difference between the maximum period of
time that a person on the Government Authorised
Exchange route is permitted to spend in the UK
under the terms of the specific approved scheme on
which the applicant had applied to participate in (as
set out in Appendix GAE schemes) and the period
that they have already been granted permission to
participate in that scheme; or
(c) the difference between 25 months and the
duration of the period during which the applicant has
already held continuous permission on the
Government Authorised Exchange route, including
any period where the Exceptions for overstayers
section of Part Suitability applied.
Conditions of grant on the Government Authorised
Exchange route
GAE 11.3. The grant will be subject to all the following
conditions:
(a) no access to public funds; and
(b) work is permitted only in the job the applicant is
being sponsored for, including volunteering and job
shadowing if recorded on the Certificate of
Sponsorship; and
(c) supplementary employment is permitted; and
(d) study is permitted, subject to the ATAS condition
in Appendix ATAS.
(e) DELETED.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-government-authorised-exchange

Page 8 of 16

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work – Government Authorised Exchange - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:53 am

Dependants on the Government
Authorised Exchange route
Validity requirements for a dependent partner or
dependent child on the Government Authorised
Exchange route
GAE 12.1. A person applying for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a dependent partner or dependent
child on the Government Authorised Exchange route
must apply online on the gov.uk website on the specified
form as follows:
Applicant

Specified form

EEA
national
with a
chipped
passport

Either (as applicable):
• Dependant partner or dependant child
using the UK Immigration: ID Check app;
or
• the forms listed below for dependant
applicants outside or inside the UK as
relevant.

Applicants
outside
the UK

Dependant partner visa
Dependant child visa

Applicants
inside the
UK

If the dependant is applying at the same
time as the person on the Government
Authorised Exchange route, they can be
included in the form Temporary Worker
where the form allows dependants to be
added. Otherwise:
- Dependant partner
- Dependant child

GAE 12.2. An application for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a partner or child on the
Government Authorised Exchange route must meet all
the following requirements:
(a) any fee and Immigration Health Charge must
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-government-authorised-exchange

Page 9 of 16

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work – Government Authorised Exchange - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:53 am

have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other travel document which satisfactorily
establishes their identity and nationality; and
(d) the applicant must be applying as a partner or
child of a person who:
(i) has made a valid application for entry
clearance or permission to stay as a person on
the Government Authorised Exchange route that
has not been decided; or
(ii) has entry clearance or permission to stay as
a person on the Government Authorised
Exchange route.
GAE 12.3. An applicant applying as a dependent
partner must be aged 18 or over on the date of
application.
GAE 12.4. If applying for permission to stay, the
applicant must be in the UK on the date of application.
GAE 12.4ZA. If applying for permission to stay, the
applicant must not have, or have last been granted,
permission:
(a) as a Visitor; or
(b) as a Short-term Student; or
(c)as a Parent of a Child Student; or
(d) as a Seasonal Worker; or
(e) as a Domestic Worker in a Private Household; or
(f) outside the Immigration Rules.
GAE 12.4A. An applicant who is applying for permission
to stay and has, or last had, permission as a Student,
must fulfil one of the Conditions A or B below on the
date of application:
(a) Condition A: the applicant must have completed
the course of study for which the Confirmation of
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-government-authorised-exchange

Page 10 of 16

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work – Government Authorised Exchange - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:53 am

Acceptance for Studies was assigned (or a course to
which ST 27.3 of Appendix Student applies); or
(b) Condition B: the applicant must:
(i) be studying a full-time course of study leading
to the award of a PhD with a higher education
provider which has a track record of compliance;
and
(ii) have completed at least 24 months of study
on that course.
GAE 12.5. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for a partner or child on the
Government Authorised Exchange route may be
rejected as invalid and not considered.
Suitability requirements for a dependent partner or
dependent child on the Government Authorised
Exchange route
GAE 13.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
GAE 13.2. If applying for permission to stay the
applicant must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.
Eligibility requirements for a dependent partner or
dependent child on the Government Authorised
Exchange route
Entry requirement for a dependent partner or
dependent child on the Government Authorised
Exchange route
GAE 14.1. A person seeking to come to the UK as a
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-government-authorised-exchange

Page 11 of 16

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work – Government Authorised Exchange - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:53 am

dependent partner or dependent child on the
Government Authorised Exchange route must apply for
and obtain entry clearance as a dependent partner or
dependent child on the Government Authorised
Exchange route before they arrive in the UK.
GAE 14.2. A person applying for entry clearance as the
partner or child on the Government Authorised
Exchange route must, if Appendix Tuberculosis applies,
provide a valid medical certificate confirming that they
have undergone screening for active pulmonary
tuberculosis and that this tuberculosis is not present in
them.
Relationship requirement for a dependent partner
on the Government Authorised Exchange route
GAE 15.1. The applicant must be the partner of a
person (P) where one of the following applies:
(a) P has permission on the Government Authorised
Exchange route; or
(b) P is, at the same time, applying for (and is
granted) entry clearance or permission on the
Government Authorised Exchange route.
GAE 15.2. The requirements of Appendix Relationship
with Partner must be met.
GAE 15.3. DELETED.
GAE 15.4. DELETED.
Relationship requirement for a dependent child on
the Government Authorised Exchange route
GAE 16.1. DELETED.
GAE 16.2. DELETED.
GAE 16.3. DELETED.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-government-authorised-exchange

Page 12 of 16

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work – Government Authorised Exchange - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:53 am

Care requirement for a dependent child on the
Government Authorised Exchange route
GAE 17.1. DELETED.
Age requirement for a dependent child on the
Government Authorised Exchange route
GAE 18.1. DELETED.
GAE 18.2. DELETED.
Requirements for a dependent child on the
Government Authorised Exchange route
GAE 18A.1. The applicant must meet the following
requirements for a dependent child in Appendix
Children:
(a) relationship requirement: entry clearance and
permission to stay; and
(b) care requirement; and
(c) age and independent life requirement.
Financial requirement for a dependent partner or
dependent child on the Government Authorised
Exchange route
GAE 19.1. If the applicant is applying for permission to
stay and has been living in the UK with permission for
12 months or longer on the date of application, they will
meet the financial requirement and do not need to show
funds.
GAE 19.2. If the applicant is applying for entry
clearance, or has been in the UK for less than 12
months on the date of application, either:
(a) funds of at least the amount required in GAE
19.3. must be held collectively by one or more of the
following:
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-government-authorised-exchange

Page 13 of 16

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work – Government Authorised Exchange - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:53 am

i) the applicant; and
ii) the person on the Government Authorised
Exchange route (P); and
iii) if the applicant is applying as a dependent
child, their parent who is lawfully present in the
UK or being granted entry clearance, or
permission to stay, at the same time; or
(b) the A-rated sponsor of the person on the
Government Authorised Exchange route must certify
that they will, if necessary, maintain and
accommodate the dependent partner and/or any
dependent child as well as the person on the
Government Authorised Exchange route, up to the
end of the first month of each of their grants of
permission, to at least the amounts required in GAE
19.3.
GAE 19.3. The funds required are:
(a) £285 for a dependent partner in the UK, or
applying for entry clearance; and
(b) £315 for the first dependent child in the UK, or
applying for entry clearance; and
(c) £200 for any other dependent child in the UK, or
applying for entry clearance.
GAE 19.4. If GAE 19.2.(a) applies, the funds held for the
applicant must be held in addition to any funds required
for the person on the Government Authorised Exchange
route to meet the financial requirement and any other
dependants in the UK or applying at the same time.
GAE 19.5. If GAE 19.2.(a) applies, the funds must have
been held for a 28-day period and as specified in
Appendix Finance.
Decision on an application as a dependent partner
or dependent child on the Government Authorised
Exchange route
GAE 20.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all the
suitability and eligibility requirements for a dependent
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-government-authorised-exchange

Page 14 of 16

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work – Government Authorised Exchange - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:53 am

partner or dependent child on the Government
Authorised Exchange route are met, the application will
be granted, otherwise the application will be refused.
GAE 20.2 If the application is refused, the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.
Period of grant for a dependent partner or
dependent child on the Government Authorised
Exchange route
GAE 21.1. A partner will be granted permission which
ends on the same date as their partner’s permission on
the Government Authorised Exchange route.
GAE 21.2. A child will be granted permission which ends
on the same date as whichever of their parents’
permission ends first.
Conditions of grant for a dependent partner or
dependent child on the Government Authorised
Exchange route
GAE 21.3. The grant will be subject to all the following
conditions:
(a) no access to public funds; and
(b) work (including self-employment and voluntary
work) is permitted, except as a professional
sportsperson (including as a sports coach); and
(c) study is permitted, subject to the ATAS condition
in Appendix ATAS if the applicant is over the age of
18.
(d) DELETED.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-government-authorised-exchange

Page 15 of 16

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work – Government Authorised Exchange - Guidance - GOV.UK

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-government-authorised-exchange

07/05/2026, 11:53 am

© Crown copyright

Page 16 of 16

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work - International Agreement - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:53 am

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work
- International Agreement
The International Agreement route is for a
person who wants to come to the UK to
provide a service covered under
international law, such as private servants
in diplomatic households, or employees of
overseas governments and international
organisations.
A person on the International Agreement route can stay
for a maximum period of 2 years.
A partner and children can apply as dependants on this
route.
The International Agreement route is not a route to
settlement.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-international-agreement

Page 1 of 22

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work - International Agreement - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:53 am

Validity Requirements for the
International Agreement route
IA 1.1. A person applying for entry clearance or
permission to stay on the International Agreement route
must apply online on gov.uk on the specified form as
follows:
Applicant

Specified form

EEA national
with a chipped
passport

Either:
•Temporary Worker using the UK
Immigration: ID Check app; or
• the forms listed below for
applicants outside or inside the UK
(as relevant)

Applicants
outside the UK

Temporary Worker visa

Applicants inside
the UK

Temporary Worker

IA 1.2. An application for entry clearance or permission
to stay on the International Agreement route must meet
all the following requirements:
(a) any fee and Immigration Health Charge must
have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other travel document which satisfactorily
establishes their identity and nationality; and
(d) the applicant must have a Certificate of
Sponsorship that was issued to them no more than 3
months before the date of application.
IA 1.3. The applicant must be aged 18 or over on the
date of application.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-international-agreement

Page 2 of 22

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work - International Agreement - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:53 am

IA 1.4. If applying for permission to stay, the applicant
must be in the UK on the date of application.
IA 1.4A. If applying for permission to stay, the applicant
must have, or have last had, permission on the
International Agreement route.
IA 1.5. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for the International Agreement
route may be rejected as invalid and not considered.

Suitability Requirements for the
International Agreement route
IA 2.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under Part
Suitability.
IA 2.2. If applying for permission to stay the applicant
must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.

Eligibility Requirements for the
International Agreement route
Entry requirement for the International Agreement
route
IA 3.1. A person seeking to come to the UK on the
International Agreement route must apply for and obtain
entry clearance on the International Agreement route
before they arrive in the UK.
IA 3.2. A person applying for entry clearance on the
International Agreement route must, if Appendix
Tuberculosis applies, provide a valid medical certificate
confirming that they have undergone screening for
active pulmonary tuberculosis and that this tuberculosis
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-international-agreement

Page 3 of 22

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work - International Agreement - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:53 am

is not present in them.
Sponsorship requirement for the International
Agreement route
IA 4.1. The applicant must have a valid Certificate of
Sponsorship for the job they are planning to do; which to
be valid must:
(a) confirm the applicant’s name, that they are being
sponsored on the International Agreement route,
details of the job and salary the sponsor is offering
them, and that these arrangements comply with the
National Minimum Wage; and
(b)include a start date, stated by the sponsor, which
is no more than three months after the date of
application; and
(c) not have been used in a previous application
which was either granted or refused (but can have
been used in a previous application which was
rejected as invalid, made void or withdrawn); and
(d) not have been withdrawn by the sponsor or
cancelled by the Home Office; and
(e) include confirmation that the role meets the
relevant requirements at IA 6.1, depending on the
role; and
(f) confirm whether the Academic Technology
Approval Scheme (ATAS) requirement in Appendix
ATAS applies.
IA 4.2. The sponsor must be authorised by the Home
Office to sponsor the job in question under the
International Agreement route.
IA 4.3. The sponsor must be listed as A-rated on the
Home Office’s register of licensed sponsors, unless the
applicant was last granted permission on the
International Agreement route and is applying to
continue working for the same sponsor as in their last
permission.
IA 4.4. The decision maker must not have reasonable
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-international-agreement

Page 4 of 22

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work - International Agreement - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:53 am

grounds to believe the job the applicant is being
sponsored to do does not comply with the National
Minimum Wage Regulations or the Working Time
Regulations.
Genuineness requirement for the International
Agreement route
IA 5.1. The applicant must:
(a) genuinely intend to, and be able to, undertake
the role for which they are sponsored; and
(b) not intend to undertake employment other than in
the role for which they are being sponsored, or as
otherwise permitted by paragraph IA14.7.
ATAS requirement for the International Agreement
route
IA 5.1A. If the ATAS requirement in Appendix ATAS
applies, the applicant must provide a valid ATAS
certificate.
International Agreement requirement
IA 6.1. The role the applicant is applying to do must be
as one of the following (and the applicant must also
meet the specific requirements for that work):
(a) a private servant in a diplomatic household; or
(b) an employee of an overseas government or other
international organisation established under an
international treaty signed by UK.
(c) DELETED.
Private servant in diplomatic household
requirements
IA 7.1. The applicant must be employed as a private
servant by, and in the household of, either:
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-international-agreement

Page 5 of 22

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work - International Agreement - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:53 am

(a) a named member of staff of a diplomatic or
consular mission who has diplomatic privileges and
immunity as defined by the Vienna Convention on
Diplomatic Relations; or
(b) a named official employed by an international
organisation recognised by the UK government with
diplomatic privileges or immunities under UK or
international law.
IA 7.2. DELETED.
IA 7.3. The applicant must not intend to undertake any
other role for the sponsor other than as a private servant
in the specified household.
IA 7.4. The applicant must intend to work full time in the
role they are being sponsored for.
IA 7.5. The applicant must not be a relative of the
employer, or employer’s spouse, either by blood or by
marriage (including but not limited to, the spouse or
unmarried partner, child, parent, grandparent or sibling
of either the employer or the employer’s spouse).
IA 7.6. DELETED
IA 7.7. The applicant must be paid at least the level of
the National Minimum Wage throughout their stay.
IA 7.8. The applicant must provide the evidence of
employment terms and conditions as set out in
Appendix Domestic Worker Statement.
IA 7.9. The applicant must provide a signed statement
from the sponsor confirming that the role will not
constitute work done in relation to the employer’s family
household within the meaning of regulation 57 of the
National Minimum Wage Regulations 2015.
IA 7.10. Where the application is for permission to stay,
they must provide evidence of payment of salary for no
less than 3 months prior to the date of application.
Evidence must be submitted in accordance with
Appendix Finance.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-international-agreement

Page 6 of 22

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work - International Agreement - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:53 am

English language requirement for a private servant
in a diplomatic household
IA 7.11. Where the application is for entry clearance, the
applicant must show English language ability on the
Common European Framework of Reference for
Languages in all 4 components (reading, writing,
speaking and listening) of at least B1 (intermediate).
IA 7.12. The applicant must show they meet the English
language requirement as specified in Appendix English
Language.
Employee of an overseas government or other
international organisation requirement
IA 8.1. The applicant must be under a contract of
employment with the overseas government or
international organisation.
IA 8.1A. Where the applicant is, or will be, working on a
contract basis (being supplied as labour from one
organisation to another), the decision maker must be
satisfied that the applicant will not be filling a permanent
position, including on a temporary basis.
IA 8.2. The applicant must not intend to take any other
form of role for the sponsor other than that for which the
Certificate of Sponsorship was assigned.
IA 8.3. The applicant must not be working as a private
servant in a diplomatic household or as a domestic
worker in a private household.
Contractual Service Supplier requirement
IA 9.1. DELETED.
IA 9.2. DELETED.
IA 9.3. DELETED.
IA 9.4. DELETED.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-international-agreement

Page 7 of 22

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work - International Agreement - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:53 am

IA 9.5. DELETED.
IA 9.6. DELETED.
IA 9.7. DELETED.
IA 9.8. DELETED.
IA 9.9. DELETED
IA 9.10. DELETED.
Independent Professional requirement
IA 10.1. DELETED.
IA 10.2. DELETED.
IA 10.3. DELETED.
IA 10.4. DELETED.
IA 10.5. DELETED.
IA 10.6. DELETED.
IA 10.7. DELETED.
IA 10.8 DELETED.
Financial Requirement for the International
Agreement route
IA 11.1. If the applicant is applying for permission to stay
and has been in the UK with permission for 12 months
or longer on the date of application, they will meet the
financial requirement and do not need to show funds.
IA 11.2. If the applicant is applying for entry clearance,
or is applying for permission to stay and has been in the
UK for less than 12 months on the date of application,
either:
(a) the applicant must have funds of at least £1,270;
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-international-agreement

Page 8 of 22

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work - International Agreement - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:53 am

or
(b) the applicant’s A rated sponsor must confirm on
the Certificate of Sponsorship that they will, if it is
necessary, maintain and accommodate the applicant
up to the end of the first month of their employment
for an amount of at least £1,270.
IA 11.3. If IA 11.2. applies, the applicant must show that
they have held the required level of funds for a 28-day
period and as specified in Appendix Finance.

Decision on an application on the
International Agreement route
IA 13.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all the
suitability and eligibility requirements for the
International Agreement route are met, the application
will be granted, otherwise the application will be refused.
IA 13.2. If the application is refused, the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.
Period of grant for the International Agreement
route
IA 14.1. DELETED.
IA 14.2. DELETED.
IA 14.3. If the application is for entry clearance, the
applicant will be granted whichever is the shorter of:
(a) the period of the role on the Certificate of
Sponsorship plus 14 days before and 14 days after
that period; or
(b) 24 months.
IA 14.4. If the applicant is an employee of an overseas
government or other international organisation and their
application is for permission to stay, the applicant will be
granted whichever is the shorter of:
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-international-agreement

Page 9 of 22

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work - International Agreement - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:53 am

(a) the period of the role on the Certificate of
Sponsorship plus 14 days after that period; or
(b) the difference between 24 months and the period
they have already been granted permission on the
International Agreement route.
IA 14.5. If the applicant is a private servant in a
diplomatic household and their application is for
permission to stay, the applicant will be granted
whichever is the shorter of:
(a) the period of the role on the Certificate of
Sponsorship plus 14 days after that period; or
(b) 24 months; or
(c) the difference between five years and the period
they have already been granted permission on the
International Agreement route.
IA 14.6. DELETED.
Conditions of grant on the International Agreement
route
IA 14.7. The grant will be subject to all the following
conditions:
(a) no access to public funds; and
(b) the only work permitted is
(i) the job the applicant is being sponsored for;
and
(ii) supplementary employment only for a person
being sponsored for a job as an employee of
overseas governments or international
organisations (but not as a private servant in a
diplomatic household) and only provided the job
in (i) is also being done.
(c) study is permitted, subject to the ATAS condition
in Appendix ATAS.
(d) DELETED.
IA 14.8. If the applicant is being sponsored as a private
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-international-agreement

Page 10 of 22

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work - International Agreement - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:53 am

servant in a diplomatic household, IA 14.7.(b) does not
prevent them from taking employment as a domestic
worker in a different household from the one specified in
the Certificate of Sponsorship.

Settlement by a Private Servant in a
diplomatic household
Validity requirements for settlement by a Private
Servant in a diplomatic household
IA 15.1. DELETED.
IA 15.2. DELETED.
IA 15.3. DELETED.
IA 15.4. DELETED.
Suitability Requirements for settlement as a Private
Servant in a diplomatic household
IA 16.1. DELETED.
IA 16.2. DELETED.
Eligibility requirements for settlement as a Private
Servant in a diplomatic household
Qualifying period requirement for settlement as a
Private Servant in a diplomatic household
IA 17.1. DELETED.
IA 17.2. DELETED.
Continuous residence requirement for settlement as
a Private Servant in a diplomatic household
IA 18.1. DELETED.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-international-agreement

Page 11 of 22

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work - International Agreement - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:53 am

English language requirement for settlement as a
Private Servant in a diplomatic household
IA 19.1. DELETED.
IA 19.2. DELETED.
Knowledge of Life in the UK requirement for
settlement as a Private Servant in a diplomatic
household
IA 20.1. DELETED.
Decision on an application for settlement by Private
Servant in a diplomatic household
IA 21.1. DELETED.
IA 21.2. DELETED.

Dependants on the International
Agreement route
Validity requirements for a dependent partner or
dependent child on the International Agreement
route
IA 22.1. A person applying for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a dependent partner or dependent
child on the International Agreement route must apply
online on the gov.uk website on the specified form as
follows:
Applicant

Specified form

EEA
national
with a
chipped
passport

Either (as applicable):
• Dependant partner or dependant child
using the UK Immigration: ID Check app;
or
• the forms listed below for dependant

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-international-agreement

Page 12 of 22

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work - International Agreement - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:53 am

applicants outside or inside the UK as
relevant.
Applicants
outside
the UK

Dependant partner visa
Dependant child visa

Applicants
inside the
UK

If the dependant is applying at the same
time as the person on the International
Agreement route, they can be included in
the form Temporary Worker where the form
allows dependants to be added. Otherwise:
- Dependant partner
- Dependant child

IA 22.2. An application for entry clearance or permission
to stay as a partner or child on the International
Agreement route must meet all the following
requirements:
(a) any fee and Immigration Health Charge must
have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other travel document which satisfactorily
establishes their identity and nationality; and
(d) the applicant must be applying as a partner or
child of a person who:
(i) has made a valid application for entry
clearance or permission to stay as a person on
the International Agreement route that has not
been decided; or
(ii) has entry clearance or permission to stay as
a person on the International Agreement route.
IA 22.3. An applicant applying as a dependent partner
must be aged 18 or over on the date of application.
IA 22.4. If applying for permission to stay, the applicant
must be in the UK on the date of application.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-international-agreement

Page 13 of 22

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work - International Agreement - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:53 am

IA 22.4ZA. If applying for permission to stay, the
applicant must not have, or have last been granted,
permission:
(a) as a Visitor; or
(b) as a Short-term Student; or
(c) as a Parent of a Child Student; or
(d) as a Seasonal Worker; or
(e) as a Domestic Worker in a Private Household; or
(f) outside the Immigration Rules.
IA 22.4A. An applicant who is applying for permission to
stay and has, or last had, permission as a Student, must
fulfil one of the Conditions A or B below on the date of
application:
(a) Condition A: the applicant must have completed
the course of study for which the Confirmation of
Acceptance for Studies was assigned (or a course to
which ST 27.3 of Appendix Student applies); or
(b) Condition B: the applicant must:
(i) be studying a full-time course of study leading
to the award of a PhD with a higher education
provider which has a track record of compliance;
and
(ii) have completed at least 24 months of study
on that course.
IA 22.5. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for a partner or child on the
International Agreement route may be rejected as
invalid and not considered.
Suitability requirements for a dependent partner or
dependent child on the International Agreement
route
IA 23.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
IA 23.2. If applying for permission to stay the applicant
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-international-agreement

Page 14 of 22

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work - International Agreement - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:53 am

must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.
Eligibility requirements for a dependent partner or
dependent child on the International Agreement
route
Entry requirement for a dependent partner or
dependent child on the International Agreement
route
IA 24.1. A person seeking to come to the UK as a
dependent partner or dependent child on the
International Agreement route must apply for and obtain
entry clearance as a dependent partner or dependent
child on the International Agreement route before they
arrive in the UK.
IA 24.2. A person applying for entry clearance as the
partner or child on the International Agreement route
must, if Appendix Tuberculosis applies, provide a valid
medical certificate confirming that they have undergone
screening for active pulmonary tuberculosis and that this
tuberculosis is not present in them.
Relationship requirement for a dependent partner
on the International Agreement route
IA 25.1. The applicant must be the partner of a person
(P) where one of the following applies:
(a) P has permission on the International Agreement
route; or
(b) P is, at the same time, applying for (and is
granted) entry clearance or permission on the
International Agreement route.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-international-agreement

Page 15 of 22

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work - International Agreement - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:53 am

IA 25.2. The requirements of Appendix Relationship with
Partner must be met.
IA 25.3. DELETED.
IA 25.4. DELETED.
Relationship requirement for a dependent child on
the International Agreement route
IA 26.1. DELETED.
IA 26.2. DELETED.
IA 26.3. DELETED.
Care requirement for a dependent child on the
International Agreement route
IA 27.1. DELETED.
Age requirement for a dependent child on the
International Agreement route
IA 28.1. DELETED.
IA 28.2. DELETED.
Requirements for a dependent child on the
International Agreement route
IA 28A.1. The applicant must meet the following
requirements for a dependent child in Appendix
Children:
(a) relationship requirement: entry clearance and
permission to stay; and
(b) care requirement; and
(c) age and independent life requirement.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-international-agreement

Page 16 of 22

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work - International Agreement - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:53 am

Financial requirement for a dependent partner or
dependent child on the International Agreement
route
IA 29.1. If the applicant is applying for permission to stay
and has been living in the UK with permission for 12
months or longer on the date of application, they will
meet the financial requirement and do not need to show
funds.
IA 29.2. If the applicant is applying for entry clearance,
or has been in the UK for less than 12 months on the
date of application, either:
(a) funds of at least the amount required in IA 29.3.
must be held collectively by one or more of the
following:
i) the applicant; and
ii) the person on the International Agreement
route (P); and
iii) if the applicant is applying as a dependent
child, their parent who is lawfully present in the
UK or being granted entry clearance, or
permission to stay, at the same time; or
(b) the A-rated sponsor of the person on the
International Agreement route must certify that they
will, if necessary, maintain and accommodate the
dependent partner and/or any dependent child as
well as the person on the International Agreement
route, up to the end of the first month of each of their
grants of permission, to at least the amounts
required in 29.3.
IA 29.3. The funds required are:
(a) £285 for a dependent partner in the UK, or
applying for entry clearance; and
(b) £315 for the first dependent child in the UK, or
applying for entry clearance; and
(c) £200 for any other dependent child in the UK, or
applying for entry clearance.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-international-agreement

Page 17 of 22

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work - International Agreement - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:53 am

IA 29.4, If IA 29.2(a) applies, the funds held for the
applicant must be held in addition to any funds required
for the person on the International Agreement route to
meet the financial requirement and any other
dependants in the UK or applying at the same time.
IA 29.5. If IA 29.2(a) applies, the funds must have been
held for a 28-day period and as specified in Appendix
Finance.
Decision on an application as a dependent partner
or dependent child on the International Agreement
route
IA 30.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all the
suitability and eligibility requirements for a dependent
partner or dependent child on the International
Agreement route are met, the application will be
granted, otherwise the application will be refused.
IA 30.2. If the application is refused, the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.
Period of grant for a dependent partner or
dependent child on the International Agreement
route
IA 31.1. A partner will be granted permission which ends
on the same date as their partner’s permission on the
International Agreement route.
IA 31.2 A child will be granted permission which ends on
the same date as whichever of their parents’ permission
ends first.
Conditions of grant for a dependent partner or
dependent child on the International Agreement
route
IA 31.3. The grant will be subject to all the following
conditions:
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-international-agreement

Page 18 of 22

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work - International Agreement - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:53 am

(a) no access to public funds; and
(b) work (including self-employment and voluntary
work) is permitted, except as a professional
sportsperson (including as a sports coach); and
(c) study is permitted, subject to the ATAS condition
in Appendix ATAS if the applicant is over the age of
18.
(d) DELETED.
Settlement as a dependent partner or dependent
child on the International Agreement route
Validity requirements for settlement as a dependent
partner or dependent child of a Private Servant in a
diplomatic household
IA 32.1. DELETED.
IA 32.2. DELETED.
IA 32.3. DELETED.
IA 32.4. DELETED.
Suitability requirements for settlement as a
dependent partner or dependent child of a Private
Servant in a diplomatic household
IA 33.1. DELETED.
IA 33.2. DELETED.
Eligibility requirements for settlement as a
dependent partner or dependent child of a Private
Servant in a diplomatic household on the
International Agreement route
Relationship requirement for settlement as a
dependent partner of a Private Servant in a
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-international-agreement

Page 19 of 22

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work - International Agreement - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:53 am

diplomatic household
IA 34.1. DELETED.
IA 34.2. DELETED.
Qualifying period requirement for settlement as a
dependent partner of a Private Servant in a
diplomatic household
IA 35.1. DELETED.
Continuous residence requirement for settlement as
a dependent partner of a Private Servant in a
diplomatic household
IA 36.1. DELETED.
English language requirement for settlement as a
dependent partner of a Private Servant in a
diplomatic household
IA 37.1. DELETED.
IA 37.2. DELETED.
Knowledge of Life in the UK requirement for
settlement as a dependent partner of a Private
Servant in a diplomatic household
IA 38.1. DELETED.
Eligibility requirements for settlement as a
dependent child of a Private Servant in a diplomatic
household
Relationship requirement for settlement as a
dependent child of a Private Servant in a diplomatic
household
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-international-agreement

Page 20 of 22

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work - International Agreement - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:53 am

IA 39.1. DELETED.
IA 39.2. DELETED.
IA 39.3. DELETED.
IA 39.4. DELETED.
English language requirement for settlement as a
dependent child of a Private Servant in a diplomatic
household
IA 40.1. DELETED.
IA 40.2. DELETED.
Knowledge of Life in the UK requirement for
settlement as a dependent child of a Private Servant
in a diplomatic household
IA 41.1. DELETED.
Decision on an application for settlement as a
dependent partner or dependent child of a Private
Servant in a diplomatic household
IA 42.1. DELETED.
IA 42.2. DELETED.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-international-agreement

Page 21 of 22

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work - International Agreement - Guidance - GOV.UK

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-international-agreement

07/05/2026, 11:53 am

© Crown copyright

Page 22 of 22

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work – Religious Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:50 am

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work
– Religious Worker
The Religious Worker route is for a person
who wants to support the activities of
religious institutions in the UK by
conducting religious work such as working
in a religious order or undertaking nonpastoral work for a religious organisation.
The Temporary Work - Religious Worker route is for a
person who wants to come to the UK to support the
activities of religious institutions by conducting religious
work such as working in a religious order or undertaking
non-pastoral work for a religious organisation. A person
on the Religious Worker route can stay in the UK for up
to a maximum of two years.
A partner and children can apply as dependants on this
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-religious-worker

Page 1 of 15

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work – Religious Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:50 am

route.
The Religious Worker route is not a route to settlement.
A Minister of Religion must apply on the T2 Minister of
Religion route if their engagement in the UK involves
leading a congregation in performing rites, rituals and
preaching the essentials of the creed as its core duties.

Validity requirements for a Religious
Worker
RW 1.1. A person applying for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a Religious Worker must apply
online on gov.uk on the specified form as follows:
Applicant

Specified form

EEA national
with a chipped
passport

Either:
• Temporary Worker using the UK
Immigration: ID Check app; or
• the forms listed below for
applicants outside or inside the UK
(as relevant)

Applicants
outside the UK

Temporary Worker visa

Applicants inside
the UK

Temporary Worker

RW 1.2. An application for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a Religious Worker must meet all
the following requirements:
(a) any fee and Immigration Health Charge must
have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other travel document which satisfactorily
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-religious-worker

Page 2 of 15

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work – Religious Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:50 am

establishes their identity and nationality; and
(d) the applicant must have a Certificate of
Sponsorship that was issued to them no more than 3
months before the date of application.
RW 1.3. The applicant must be aged 18 or over on the
date of application.
RW 1.4. If applying for permission to stay, the applicant
must be in the UK on the date of application.
RW 1.4A. If applying for permission to stay, the
applicant must have, or have last had, permission as a
Religious Worker.
RW 1.5. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for a Religious Worker may be
rejected as invalid and not considered.

Suitability requirements for a Religious
Worker
RW 2.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
RW 2.2. If applying for permission to stay the applicant
must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.

Eligibility requirements for a Religious
Worker
Entry requirements for a Religious Worker
RW 3.1. A person seeking to come to the UK on the
Religious Worker route must have applied for and
obtained entry clearance as a Religious Worker before
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-religious-worker

Page 3 of 15

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work – Religious Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:50 am

they arrive in the UK.
RW 3.2. A person applying for entry clearance as a
Religious Worker must, if Appendix Tuberculosis
applies, provide a valid medical certificate confirming
that they have undergone screening for active
pulmonary tuberculosis and that this tuberculosis is not
present in them.
RW 3.3. An applicant for entry clearance must not have
had permission as a Religious Worker or Charity Worker
at any time during the 12 months immediately before the
date of application unless they can show they were not
in the UK at any time during those 12 months.
Sponsorship requirement for a Religious Worker
RW 4.1. The applicant must have a valid Certificate of
Sponsorship for the job they are planning to do; which to
be valid must:
(a) confirm the applicant’s name, that they are being
sponsored as a Religious Worker, details of the job
and pay the sponsor is offering them; and
(b) include a start date, stated by the sponsor, which
is no more than 3 months after the date of
application; and
(c) not have been used in a previous application
which was either granted or refused (but can have
been used in a previous application which was
rejected as invalid, made void or withdrawn); and
(d) not have been withdrawn by the sponsor or
cancelled by the Home Office; and
(e) confirm that the role meets the requirements at
RW 4.3; and
(f) confirm whether the applicant is a member of the
sponsor’s order, if the sponsor is a religious order;
and
(g) confirm that the applicant will receive pay and
conditions at least equal to those given to settled
workers in the same role; and
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-religious-worker

Page 4 of 15

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work – Religious Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:50 am

(h) confirm that the pay complies with or is exempt
from the National Minimum Wage; and
(i) confirm that the requirements of the resident
labour consideration, as set out in RW 4.2, in
respect of the job, have been complied with, or that
the applicant is applying for permission to stay and
the sponsor is the same sponsor as in their last
grant of permission as a Religious Worker.
RW 4.2. The requirements of the resident labour
consideration are:
(a) that the role is supernumerary, such that it is over
and above the sponsor’s normal staffing
requirements and if the person filling the role was
not there, it would not need to be filled by anyone
else (with a full explanation of why it is
supernumerary); or
(b) that the role involves living mainly within and
being a member of a religious order, which must be
a lineage of communities or of people who live in
some way set apart from society in accordance with
their specific religious devotion, for example an
order of nuns or monks; or
(c) that the sponsor holds national records of all
available individuals, details of those records and
confirms that the records show that no suitable
settled worker is available to fill the role; or
(d) that a national recruitment search was
undertaken, and the following details are provided:
(i) where the role was advertised, which must be
at least one of the following:
(1) a national form of media appropriate to
the sponsor’s religion or denomination; or
(2) the sponsor’s own website, if that is how
the sponsor usually reaches out to its
community on a national scale, that is where
it normally advertises vacant positions, and
the pages containing the advertisement are
free to view without paying a subscription fee
or making a donation; or
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-religious-worker

Page 5 of 15

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work – Religious Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:50 am

(3) Jobcentre Plus (or in Northern Ireland,
Job Centre Online) or in the employment
section of a national newspaper, if there is no
suitable national form of media appropriate to
the sponsor’s religion or denomination; and
(ii) any reference numbers of the
advertisements; and
(iii) the period the role was advertised for, which
must include at least 28 days during the six
month period immediately before the date the
sponsor assigned the Certificate of Sponsorship
to the applicant; and
(iv) confirmation that no suitable settled workers
are available to be recruited for the role.
RW 4.3. The sponsor must ensure the role meets all the
following requirements:
(a) the role must involve performing religious duties
within, or directed by, the sponsor’s organisation to
support the activities of the religious institution; and
(b) the religious duties must not include work which
falls under a role of a Minister of Religion (which
means the applicant must not have core duties of
leading a congregation in performing the rites and
rituals of the faith and in preaching the essentials of
the creed).
RW 4.4. The sponsor must be authorised by the Home
Office to sponsor the job in question under the Religious
Worker route.
RW 4.5. The sponsor must be listed as A-rated on the
Home Office’s register of licensed sponsors, unless the
applicant was last granted permission as a Religious
Worker and is applying to continue working for the same
sponsor as in their last permission.
RW 4.6. The decision maker must not have reasonable
grounds to believe the job the applicant is being
sponsored to do does not comply with the National
Minimum Wage Regulations or the Working Time
Regulations.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-religious-worker

Page 6 of 15

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work – Religious Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:50 am

Genuineness requirement for a Religious Worker
RW 5.1. The applicant must:
(a) genuinely intend, and be able, to undertake the
role for which they are being sponsored; and
(b) not intend to undertake employment other than in
the role for which they are being sponsored, or as
otherwise permitted by paragraph RW 8.3.
Financial requirement for a Religious Worker
RW 6.1. If the applicant is applying for permission to
stay and has been in the UK with permission for 12
months or longer on the date of application, they will
meet the financial requirement and do not need to show
funds.
RW 6.2. If the applicant is applying for entry clearance,
or is applying for permission to stay and has been in the
UK for less than 12 months on the date of application,
either:
(a) the applicant must have funds of at least £1,270;
or
(b) the applicant’s A rated sponsor must confirm on
the Certificate of Sponsorship that they will, if it is
necessary, maintain and accommodate the applicant
up to the end of the first month of their employment
for an amount of at least £1,270.
RW 6.3. If RW 6.2.(a) applies, the applicant must show
that they have held the required level of funds for a 28day period and as specified in Appendix Finance.

Decision on an application as a
Religious Worker
RW 7.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all the
suitability and eligibility requirements for the Religious
Worker route are met, the application will be granted,
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-religious-worker

Page 7 of 15

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work – Religious Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:50 am

otherwise the application will be refused.
RW 7.2. If the application is refused, the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.
Period of grant for a Religious Worker
RW 8.1. If the application is for entry clearance, the
applicant will be granted whichever is the shorter of:
(a) the period of the job on the Certificate of
Sponsorship plus 14 days before and after; or
(b) 24 months.
RW 8.2. If the application is for permission to stay, the
applicant will be granted whichever is the shorter of:
(a) the period of the job on the Certificate of
Sponsorship plus 14 days; or
(b) the difference between the period the applicant
has already spent in the UK since their last grant of
permission as a Religious Worker and 24 months.
Conditions of grant for a Religious Worker
RW 8.3. The grant will be subject to all the following
conditions:
(a) no access to public funds; and
(b) work is permitted only in the role the applicant is
being sponsored for; and
(c) supplementary employment is permitted; and
(d) study is permitted, subject to the ATAS condition
in Appendix ATAS.
(e) DELETED.

Dependants of a Religious Worker
Validity requirements for a dependent partner or
dependent child of a Religious Worker
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-religious-worker

Page 8 of 15

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work – Religious Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:50 am

RW 9.1. A person applying for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a dependent partner or dependent
child of a Religious Worker must apply online on the
gov.uk website on the specified form as follows:
Applicant

Specified form

EEA
national
with a
chipped
passport

Either (as applicable):
• Dependant partner or dependant child
using the UK Immigration: ID Check app;
or
• the forms listed below for dependant
applicants outside or inside the UK as
relevant.

Applicants
outside
the UK

Dependant partner visa
Dependant child visa

Applicants
inside the
UK

If the dependant is applying at the same
time as the Religious Worker, they can be
included in the form Temporary Worker
where the form allows dependants to be
added. Otherwise:
- Dependant partner
- Dependant child

RW 9.2. An application for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a partner or child of a Religious
Worker must meet all the following requirements:
(a) any fee and Immigration Health Charge must
have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other travel document which satisfactorily
establishes their identity and nationality; and
(d) the applicant must be applying as a partner or
child of a person who:
(i) has made a valid application for entry
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-religious-worker

Page 9 of 15

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work – Religious Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:50 am

clearance or permission to stay on the Religious
Worker route that has not been decided; or
(ii) has entry clearance or permission to stay on
the Religious Worker route.
RW 9.3. An applicant applying as a dependent partner
must be aged 18 or over on the date of application.
RW 9.4. If applying for permission to stay, the applicant
must be in the UK on the date of application.
RW 9.4ZA. If applying for permission to stay, the
applicant must not have, or have last been granted,
permission:
(a) as a Visitor; or
(b) as a Short-term Student; or
(c) as a Parent of a Child Student; or
(d) as a Seasonal Worker; or
(e) as a Domestic Worker in a Private Household; or
(f) outside the Immigration Rules.
RW 9.4A. An applicant who is applying for permission to
stay and has, or last had, permission as a Student, must
fulfil one of the Conditions A or B below on the date of
application:
(a) Condition A: the applicant must have completed
the course of study for which the Confirmation of
Acceptance for Studies was assigned (or a course to
which ST 27.3 of Appendix Student applies); or
(b) Condition B: the applicant must:
(i) be studying a full-time course of study leading
to the award of a PhD with a higher education
provider which has a track record of compliance;
and
(ii) have completed at least 24 months of study
on that course.
RW 9.5. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for a partner or child of a Religious
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-religious-worker

Page 10 of 15

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work – Religious Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:50 am

Worker may be rejected as invalid and not considered.
Suitability requirements for a dependent partner or
dependent child of a Religious Worker
RW 10.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
RW 10.2. If applying for permission to stay the applicant
must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.
Eligibility requirements for a dependent partner or
dependent child of a Religious Worker
Entry requirement for a dependent partner or
dependent child of a Religious Worker
RW 11.1. A person seeking to come to the UK as a
dependent partner or dependent child of a Religious
Worker must apply for and obtain entry clearance as a
dependent partner or dependent child of a Religious
Worker before they arrive in the UK.
RW 11.2. A person applying for entry clearance as the
partner or child of a Religious Worker must, if Appendix
Tuberculosis to these Rules applies, provide a valid
medical certificate confirming that they have undergone
screening for active pulmonary tuberculosis and that this
tuberculosis is not present in them.
Relationship requirement for a dependent partner of
a Religious Worker
RW 12.1. The applicant must be the partner of a person
(P) where one of the following applies:
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-religious-worker

Page 11 of 15

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work – Religious Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:50 am

(a) P has permission on the Religious Worker route;
or
(b) P is, at the same time, applying for (and is
granted) entry clearance or permission on the
Religious Worker route.
RW 12.2. The requirements of Appendix Relationship
with Partner must be met.
RW 12.3. DELETED.
RW 12.4. DELETED.
Relationship requirement for a dependent child of a
Religious Worker
RW 13.1. DELETED.
RW 13.2. DELETED.
RW 13.3. DELETED.
Care requirement for a dependent child of a
Religious Worker
RW 14.1. DELETED.
Age requirement for a dependent child of a
Religious Worker
RW 15.1. DELETED.
RW 15.2. DELETED.
Requirements for a dependent child of a Religious
Worker
RW 15A.1. The applicant must meet the following
requirements for a dependent child in Appendix
Children:
(a) relationship requirement: entry clearance and
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-religious-worker

Page 12 of 15

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work – Religious Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:50 am

permission to stay; and
(b) care requirement; and
(c) age and independent life requirement.
Financial requirement for a dependent partner or
dependent child of a Religious Worker
RW 16.1. If the applicant is applying for permission to
stay and has been living in the UK with permission for
12 months or longer on the date of application, they will
meet the financial requirement and do not need to show
funds.
RW 16.2. If the applicant is applying for entry clearance,
or has been in the UK for less than 12 months on the
date of application, either:
(a) funds of at least the amount required in RW 16.3.
must be held collectively by one or more of the
following:
i) the applicant; and
ii) the Religious Worker (P); and
iii) if the applicant is applying as a dependent
child, their parent who is lawfully present in the
UK or being granted entry clearance, or
permission to stay, at the same time; or
(b) the Religious Worker’s A-rated sponsor must
certify that they will, if necessary, maintain and
accommodate the dependent partner and/or any
dependent child as well as the Religious Worker, up
to the end of the first month of each of their grants of
permission, to at least the amounts required in RW
16.3.
RW 16.3. The funds required are:
(a) £285 for a dependent partner in the UK, or
applying for entry clearance; and
(b) £315 for the first dependent child in the UK, or
applying for entry clearance; and
(c) £200 for any other dependent child in the UK, or
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-religious-worker

Page 13 of 15

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work – Religious Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:50 am

applying for entry clearance.
RW 16.4. If RW 16.2.(a) applies, the funds held for the
applicant must be held in addition to any funds required
for the Religious Worker to meet the financial
requirement and any other dependants in the UK or
applying at the same time.
RW 16.5. If RW 16.2.(a) applies, the funds must have
been held for a 28-day period and as specified in
Appendix Finance.
Decision on an application as a dependent partner
or dependent child of a Religious Worker
RW 17.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all the
suitability and eligibility requirements for a dependent
partner or dependent child of a Religious Worker are
met, the application will be granted, otherwise the
application will be refused.
RW 17.2. If the application is refused, the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.
Period of grant for a dependent partner or
dependent child of a Religious Worker
RW 18.1. A partner will be granted permission which
ends on the same date as their partner’s permission as
a Religious Worker.
RW 18.2. A child will be granted permission which ends
on the same date as whichever of their parents’
permission ends first.
Conditions of grant for a dependent partner or
dependent child of a Religious Worker
RW 18.3. The grant will be subject to all the following
conditions:
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-religious-worker

Page 14 of 15

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work – Religious Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:50 am

(a) no access to public funds; and
(b) work (including self-employment and voluntary
work) is permitted, except as a professional
sportsperson (including as a sports coach); and
(c) study is permitted, subject to the ATAS condition
in Appendix ATAS if the applicant is over the age of
18.
(d) DELETED.

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-religious-worker

© Crown copyright

Page 15 of 15

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work - Seasonal Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:49 am

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work
- Seasonal Worker
The Seasonal Worker route is for a person
who wants to come to the UK to do
seasonal horticulture work or poultry
production work.
The Seasonal Worker route is for a person who wants to
come to the UK to do seasonal horticulture work or
poultry production work. A person on the Seasonal
Worker route can stay for a maximum period of six
months in any 10-month period if they are working in a
role in the horticulture sector and if they are a poultry
production worker they can stay for a period of time
beginning no earlier than 2 October and ending no later
than 31 December each year.
A partner and children are not permitted to apply as
dependants on this route.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-seasonal-worker

Page 1 of 9

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work - Seasonal Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:49 am

The Seasonal Worker route is not a route to settlement.

Validity requirements for a Seasonal
Worker
SAW 1.1. A person applying for entry clearance as a
Seasonal Worker must apply online on gov.uk on the
specified form as follows:
Applicant

Specified form

EEA national
with a chipped
passport

Either:
• Temporary Worker using the UK
Immigration: ID Check app; or
• the forms listed below for
applicants outside or inside the UK
(as relevant)

Applicants
outside the UK

Temporary Worker visa

SAW 1.2. An application for entry clearance as a
Seasonal Worker must meet all the following
requirements:
(a) any fee must have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other travel document which satisfactorily
establishes their identity and nationality; and
(d) the applicant must have a Certificate of
Sponsorship that was issued to them no more than 3
months before the date of application.
SAW 1.3. The applicant must be aged 18 or over on the
date of application.
SAW1.3ZA. If the Certificate of Sponsorship confirms
that the role is in the poultry production sector, the date
of application must be on or before 15 November in
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-seasonal-worker

Page 2 of 9

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work - Seasonal Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:49 am

each year.
SAW 1.3A. DELETED.
SAW 1.3B. DELETED.
SAW 1.3C. DELETED.
SAW 1.4. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for the Seasonal Worker route may
be rejected as invalid and not considered.

Suitability requirements for a Seasonal
Worker
SAW 2.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.

Eligibility requirements for a Seasonal
Worker
Entry requirements for a Seasonal Worker
SAW 3.1. A person seeking to come to the UK as a
Seasonal Worker must have applied for and obtained
entry clearance as a Seasonal Worker before they
arrive in the UK.
SAW3.2. An applicant applying for entry clearance must
not have been in the UK as a Seasonal Worker during
the 4 months immediately before the start date stated by
the sponsor on the Certificate of Sponsorship.
Certificate of Sponsorship requirement for a
Seasonal Worker
SAW 4.1. The applicant must have a Certificate of
Sponsorship for the job they are planning to do, which
must:
(a) confirm the applicant’s name, that they are being
sponsored as a Seasonal Worker, details of the job
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-seasonal-worker

Page 3 of 9

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work - Seasonal Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:49 am

and salary the sponsor is offering them; and
(b) include a start date, stated by the sponsor, which
is no more than three months after the date of
application; and
(c) not have been used in a previous application
which was either granted or refused (but can have
been used in a previous application which was
rejected as invalid, made void or withdrawn); and
(d) not have been withdrawn by the sponsor or
cancelled by the Home Office; and
(e) confirm that the role conforms with all relevant
legislation, such as the relevant Agricultural Wages
Order rate where this applies, and the Working Time
Regulations; and
(f) confirm that they are employed in either the
horticulture or the poultry production sector. Work in
in the horticulture sector means those growing:
(i) Protected Vegetables – those grown in
glasshouse systems; or
(ii) Field Vegetables – those grown outdoors,
including vegetables, herbs, leafy salads and
potatoes; or
(iii) Soft Fruit – those grown outdoors or under
cover e.g. in glasshouses or polytunnels.
Includes strawberries, raspberries,
blackcurrants, blueberries and all ribes and
rubus species; or
(iv) Top Fruit (Orchard Fruit) - trees that bear fruit
e.g. apples, plums, cherries, apricots; or
(v) Vine and Bines – both twining or climbing
flexible stems of certain plants, e.g. hops is a
bine, and grapes is a vine; or
(vi) Mushrooms – typically covers Agaricus
bisporus species but can also include more
exotic species (typically grown indoors); or
(vii) Bulbs and cut flowers, such as daffodils,
grown outdoors and indoors; or
(viii) Pot plants, such as seasonal bedding plants
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-seasonal-worker

Page 4 of 9

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work - Seasonal Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:49 am

like pansies, violas, geraniums and poinsettias;
or
(ix) Hardy ornamental nursery stock such as
Christmas trees, shrubs, roses, ornamental trees
and perennials; or
(x) Tree and forest nurseries.
Work in the poultry production sector means
undertaking one of the following roles:
(i) Butcher (SOC 2020 occupation code 5431); or
(ii) Bird/game dresser (SOC 2020 occupation
code 5433); or
(iii) Killer and plucker (SOC 2020 occupation
code 5433); or
(iv) Plucker (SOC 2020 occupation code 5433);
or
(v) Poulterer (SOC 2020 occupation code 5433);
or
(vi) Poultry processor (SOC 2020 occupation
code 5433); or
(vii) Poultry sticker (SOC 2020 occupation code
5433); or
(viii) Trusser (SOC 2020 occupation code 5433);
or
(ix) Food operative (SOC 2020 occupation code
8111); or
(x) Poultry catcher/handler (SOC 2020
occupation code 9111); or
(xi) Poultry vaccinator (SOC 2020 occupation
code 9119); or
(xii) Poultry meat packer (SOC 2020 occupation
code 9132); and
(g) confirm either:
(i) if the applicant is being sponsored in the
horticulture sector or under SOC 2020 occupation
code 8111, 9111, 9119 or 9132 in the poultry
production sector, they will be paid at least £12.71
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-seasonal-worker

Page 5 of 9

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work - Seasonal Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:49 am

for each hour worked and receive at least 32 hours
pay each week; or
(ii) if the applicant is being sponsored under SOC
2020 occupation code 5431 or 5433 in the poultry
production sector, they will be paid at least £15.88
for each hour worked and £38,700 per year.
SAW4.1A. The hourly rate only includes guaranteed
basic gross pay (before income tax and including
employee pension and national insurance
contributions), and does not include other pay and
benefits (such as those listed in SW 14.2).
SAW 4.1B. DELETED.
SAW 4.1C. If the applicant is being sponsored to work
more than 48 hours a week, subject to SAW 4.1D, only
the salary for the first 48 hours a week will be
considered towards the salary threshold of £38,700.
SAW 4.1D. If the applicant is being sponsored to work a
pattern where the regular hours are not the same each
week, resulting in uneven pay:
(a) work in excess of 48 hours in some weeks can
be considered towards the salary threshold of
£38,700, providing the average over a regular cycle
(which can be less than, but not more than, 17
weeks) is not more than 48 hours a week; and
(b) any unpaid rest weeks will count towards the
average when considering whether the salary
thresholds are met; and
(c) any unpaid rest weeks will not count as absences
from employment for the purpose of paragraph SUI
36.1. in Part Suitability of these rules.
For example, an applicant who works a pattern of 60
hours a week for £20 per hour for two weeks, followed
by an unpaid rest week, will be considered to work 40
hours a week on average and have a salary of £41,600
(£20 x 40 x 52) per year.
SAW 4.2. The Certificate of Sponsorship must have
been issued by a sponsor who:
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-seasonal-worker

Page 6 of 9

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work - Seasonal Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:49 am

(a) is listed as A-rated on the Home Office’s register
of licensed sponsors; and
(b) has an endorsement from the Department for
Environment, Food and Rural Affairs in relation to
the Seasonal Worker route; and
(c) is licensed by the Gangmasters and Labour
Abuse Authority.
SAW 4.3. The decision maker must not have
reasonable grounds to believe the job the applicant is
being sponsored to do does not comply with the
National Minimum Wage Regulations or the Working
Time Regulations.
Financial requirement for a Seasonal Worker
SAW 5.1. Either:
(a) the applicant must have funds of at least £1,270;
or
(b) the applicant’s A rated sponsor must confirm on
the Certificate of Sponsorship that they will, if it is
necessary, maintain and accommodate the applicant
up to the end of the first month of their employment
for an amount of at least £1,270.
SAW 5.2. If SAW 5.1.(a) applies, the applicant must
show that they have held the required level of funds for
a 28-day period and as specified in Appendix Finance.

Decision on an application as a
Seasonal Worker
SAW 6.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all the
suitability and eligibility requirements are met for a
Seasonal Worker, the application will be granted,
otherwise the application will be refused.
SAW 6.2. If the application is refused, the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-seasonal-worker

Page 7 of 9

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work - Seasonal Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:49 am

Period of grant for a Seasonal Worker
SAW 7.1. The applicant will be granted permission as
follows:
(a) if the role is in the horticulture sector, for
whichever is the shortest of either:
(i) a maximum period of 6 months in any 10month period, or
(ii) the period of the job on the Certificate of
Sponsorship plus 14 days before and 14 days
after that period; or
(b) if the role is in the poultry production sector, for
whichever is the shortest of either:
(i) the period commencing on 2 October and
ending on 31 December in the year on which the
application is submitted (inclusive); or
(ii) the period of the job on the Certificate of
Sponsorship plus 14 days before and 14 days
after that period.
SAW 7.1A. DELETED.
SAW 7.1B. DELETED.
SAW 7.1C. DELETED.
Conditions of grant for a Seasonal Worker
SAW 7.2. The grant will be subject to all the following
conditions:
(a) no access to public funds; and
(b) work is permitted only in the role the applicant is
being sponsored for; and
(c) study is permitted, subject to the ATAS condition
in Appendix ATAS.
(d) DELETED.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-seasonal-worker

Page 8 of 9

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Temporary Work - Seasonal Worker - Guidance - GOV.UK

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-temporary-work-seasonal-worker

07/05/2026, 11:49 am

© Crown copyright

Page 9 of 9

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Tuberculosis (TB) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:09 pm

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix Tuberculosis (TB)
This appendix sets out when a person is
required to provide a valid TB certificate
with their application for entry clearance
and the requirements for a TB certificate to
be valid.
TB1. A person must provide a valid TB certificate with
their application if paragraph TB2 applies, and they are
applying for entry clearance to come to the UK:
(a) for more than 6 months, except for applications
made under Appendix Ukraine Scheme; or
(b) as a fiancé(e) or proposed civil partner under
Appendix FM: family members; or
(c) as a returning resident in accordance with
Appendix Returning Residents.
TB2. A valid TB certificate is required if the applicant
has been continuously present in a country or countries
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-tuberculosis-tb

Page 1 of 6

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Tuberculosis (TB) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:09 pm

has been continuously present in a country or countries
listed at TB6 for 6 months or more, which includes a
period (of any length) within the 6 months before the
date of application.
TB3: A TB certificate is valid only if it:
(a) was issued by a medical practitioner approved by
the Secretary of State for the purpose of these rules,
as listed on the Gov.uk website; and
(b) confirms that the applicant has undergone
screening for active pulmonary tuberculosis and that
this tuberculosis is not present in the applicant; and
(c) was issued within the 6-month period
immediately before the date of application; and
(d) has not expired.
TB4. A person may be required to provide a new valid
TB certificate before the application for entry clearance
is granted, if:
(a) the TB certificate provided with their application
expired more than 6 months before the date on
which the application is considered; and
(b) the applicant otherwise meets the requirements
to be granted entry clearance.
TB5. The decision maker may waive the requirement to
provide a valid TB certificate if they are satisfied that the
applicant is unable to obtain a certificate and it is
reasonable to waive the requirement on the specific
facts of the case.
TB6. The list of countries for the purpose of TB2 is:
• Afghanistan
• Algeria
• Angola
• Armenia
• Azerbaijan
• Bangladesh
• Belarus
• Benin

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-tuberculosis-tb

Page 2 of 6

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Tuberculosis (TB) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:09 pm

• Benin
• Bhutan
• Bolivia
• Botswana
• Brunei Darussalam
• Burkina Faso
• Burma
• Burundi
• Cambodia
• Cape Verde
• Central African Republic
• Chad
• Cameroon
• China
• Congo
• Congo Democratic Republic
• Côte d’Ivoire
• Democratic People’s Republic of Korea
• Djibouti
• Dominican Republic
• Ecuador
• Equatorial Guinea
• Eritrea
• Ethiopia
• Gabon
• Gambia
• Georgia
• Ghana
• Guatemala
• Guinea
• Guinea Bissau

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-tuberculosis-tb

Page 3 of 6

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Tuberculosis (TB) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:09 pm

• Guinea Bissau
• Guyana
• Haiti
• Hong Kong or Macau
• India
• Indonesia
• Iraq
• Kazakhstan
• Kenya
• Kiribati
• Korea
• Kyrgyzstan
• Laos
• Lesotho
• Liberia
• Madagascar
• Malawi
• Malaysia
• Mali
• Marshall Islands
• Mauritania
• Micronesia
• Moldova
• Mongolia
• Morocco
• Mozambique
• Namibia
• Nepal
• Niger
• Nigeria
• Pakistan

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-tuberculosis-tb

Page 4 of 6

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Tuberculosis (TB) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:09 pm

• Pakistan
• Palau
• Papua New Guinea
• Panama
• Paraguay
• Peru
• Philippines
• Russian Federation
• Rwanda
• Sao Tome and Principe
• Senegal
• Sierra Leone
• Solomon Islands
• Somalia
• South Africa
• South Sudan
• Sri Lanka
• Sudan
• Suriname
• Swaziland
• Tajikistan
• Tanzania
• Thailand
• Timor Leste
• Togo
• Turkmenistan
• Tuvalu
• Uganda
• Ukraine
• Uzbekistan
• Vanuatu

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-tuberculosis-tb

Page 5 of 6

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Tuberculosis (TB) - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:09 pm

• Vanuatu
• Vietnam
• Zambia
• Zimbabwe

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-tuberculosis-tb

© Crown copyright

Page 6 of 6

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix UK Ancestry - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:43 am

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix UK Ancestry
Immigration Rules for UK Ancestry
The UK Ancestry route is for a Commonwealth citizen
aged 17 or over who wants to live and work in the UK
and who has a grandparent who was born in the UK or
Islands.
A dependent partner and dependent children can apply
under this route.
UK Ancestry is a route to settlement.

Validity requirements for UK Ancestry
UKA 1.1. A person applying for entry clearance or
permission to stay on the UK Ancestry route must apply
online on the gov.uk website on the specified form as
follows:
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-uk-ancestry

Page 1 of 17

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix UK Ancestry - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:43 am

(a) for entry clearance, form “UK Ancestry, Right of
Abode or Returning Residents visa”; or
(b) for permission to stay, form “Application to
extend stay in the UK: FLR(IR)”.
UKA 1.2. An application for entry clearance or
permission to stay on the UK Ancestry route must meet
all the following requirements:
(a) any fee and Immigration Health Charge must
have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other travel document which satisfactorily
establishes their identity and nationality.
UKA 1.3. The applicant must be a Commonwealth
citizen.
UKA 1.4. If applying for entry clearance, the applicant
must be aged 17 or over on the date of their intended
arrival in the UK.
UKA 1.5. If applying for permission to stay, the applicant
must be in the UK on the date of application.
UKA 1.5A. If applying for permission to stay, the
applicant must have previously been granted permission
on the UK Ancestry route as a person with UK Ancestry.
UKA 1.6. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for the UK Ancestry route may be
rejected as invalid and not considered.

Suitability requirements for UK Ancestry
UKA 2.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
UKA 2.2. If applying for permission to stay, the applicant
must not be:
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-uk-ancestry

Page 2 of 17

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix UK Ancestry - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:43 am

(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.

Eligibility requirements for UK Ancestry
Entry requirements for UK Ancestry
UKA 3.1. A person seeking to come to the UK on the UK
Ancestry route must apply for and obtain entry
clearance on the UK Ancestry route before they arrive in
the UK.
UKA 3.2. A person applying for entry clearance on the
UK Ancestry route must, if Appendix Tuberculosis
applies, provide a valid medical certificate confirming
that they have undergone screening for active
pulmonary tuberculosis and that this tuberculosis is not
present in them.
Grandparent born in the UK or Islands requirement
UKA 4.1. The applicant must have a grandparent born in
the UK or Islands.
Financial requirement for UK Ancestry
UKA 5.1. The decision maker must be satisfied that the
applicant can and will adequately maintain and
accommodate themselves, and any dependants in the
UK, or applying for entry clearance, without recourse to
public funds.
UKA 5.2. Funds must be shown as specified in
Appendix Finance.
UKA 5.3. In assessing whether the applicant meets the
financial requirement in UKA 5.1, the decision maker
may take into account credible promises of financial
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-uk-ancestry

Page 3 of 17

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix UK Ancestry - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:43 am

support from a third party, such as a relative or friend of
the applicant.
Work requirement for UK Ancestry
UKA 6.1. The applicant must be able to work and intend
to seek and take employment in the UK.
Parental consent requirement for UK Ancestry
applicant aged under 18
UKA 7.1. The applicant must meet the parental consent
requirement for an applicant not applying as a
dependent child in Appendix Children .
UKA 7.2. DELETED.

Decision on an application for UK
Ancestry
UKA 8.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all the
suitability and eligibility requirements are met for UK
Ancestry, the application will be granted, otherwise the
application will be refused.
UKA 8.2. If the application is refused the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.
Period of grant on the UK Ancestry route
UKA 9.1. The applicant will be granted permission for 5
years.
Conditions of grant on the UK Ancestry route
UKA 9.2. The grant will be subject to all the following
conditions:
(a) no access to public funds; and
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-uk-ancestry

Page 4 of 17

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix UK Ancestry - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:43 am

(b) work is permitted (including self-employment);
and
(c) voluntary work is permitted; and
(d) study is permitted, subject to the ATAS condition
in Appendix ATAS.
(e) DELETED

Settlement on the UK Ancestry route
Validity requirements for settlement on the UK
Ancestry route
UKA 10.1. A person on the UK Ancestry route who is
applying for settlement must apply online on the gov.uk
website on the specified form “Settle in the UK in
various immigration categories: form SET(O)”.
UKA 10.2. An application for settlement must meet all
the following requirements:
(a) any fee must have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other travel document which satisfactorily
establishes their identity and nationality; and
(d) the applicant must be in the UK.
UKA 10.3. The applicant must be a Commonwealth
citizen on the date of application.
UKA 10.4. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for settlement on the UK Ancestry
route may be rejected as invalid and not considered.
Suitability Requirements for settlement on the UK
Ancestry route
UKA 11.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-uk-ancestry

Page 5 of 17

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix UK Ancestry - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:43 am

UKA 11.2. The applicant must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.
Eligibility requirements for settlement on the UK
Ancestry route
UKA 12.1. The applicant must continue to meet the
eligibility requirements of UKA 4.1 to UKA 6.1.
Qualifying period requirement for settlement on the
UK Ancestry route
UKA 13.1. The applicant must have spent 5 years in the
UK with permission on the UK Ancestry route as a
person with UK Ancestry.
Continuous residence requirement for settlement on
the UK Ancestry route
UKA 14.1. The applicant must meet the continuous
residence requirement in Appendix Continuous
Residence during the period in UKA 13.1.
English language requirement for settlement on the
UK Ancestry route
UKA 15.1. Unless an exemption applies, the applicant
must:
(a) Where the date of application is before 26 March
2027, the applicant must, unless an exemption
applies, show English language ability on the
Common European Framework of Reference for
Languages in speaking and listening to at least level
B1; or
(b) Where the date of application is on or after 26
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-uk-ancestry

Page 6 of 17

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix UK Ancestry - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:43 am

March 2027, the applicant must, unless an
exemption applies, show English language ability on
the Common European Framework of Reference for
Languages in speaking and listening to at least level
B2.
UKA 15.2. The applicant must show they meet the
English language requirement as specified in Appendix
English Language.
Knowledge of life in the UK requirement for
settlement on the UK Ancestry route
UKA 16.1. The applicant must meet the knowledge of
Life in the UK requirement as specified in Appendix KOL
UK.

Decision on an application for
settlement on the UK Ancestry route
UKA 17.1. If the decision maker is satisfied all the
suitability and eligibility requirements are met for
settlement on the UK Ancestry route, the applicant will
be granted settlement, otherwise the application will be
refused.
UKA 17.2. If the application is refused the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.

Dependants of a person with UK
Ancestry
Validity requirements for a dependent partner or
dependent child on the UK Ancestry route
UKA 18.1. A person applying for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a dependent partner or dependent
child on the UK Ancestry route must apply online on the
gov.uk website on the specified form as follows:
(a) for entry clearance, “Join or accompany a family
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-uk-ancestry

Page 7 of 17

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix UK Ancestry - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:43 am

member” on the “Find and apply for other visas from
outside the UK” form; or
(b) for permission to stay, form “Application to
extend stay in the UK: FLR(IR)”.
UKA 18.2. An application for entry clearance or
permission to stay as a partner or child of a person on
the UK Ancestry route must meet all the following
requirements:
(a) any fee and Immigration Health Charge must
have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other travel document which satisfactorily
establishes their identity and nationality; and
(d) the applicant must be applying as partner or child
of a person who:
(i) has made a valid application for entry
clearance or permission to stay on the UK
Ancestry route that has not been decided; or
(ii) has entry clearance or permission to stay on
the UK Ancestry route; or
(iii) is settled or has become a British citizen,
providing that person (P) had permission on the
UK Ancestry route when they settled.
UKA 18.3. If applying for permission to stay, the
applicant must be in the UK on the date of application.
UKA 18.3ZA. If applying for permission to stay, the
applicant must not have, or have last been granted,
permission:
(a) as a Visitor; or
(b) as a Short-term Student; or
(c) as a Parent of a Child Student; or
(d) as a Seasonal Worker; or
(e) as a Domestic Worker in a Private Household; or
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-uk-ancestry

Page 8 of 17

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix UK Ancestry - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:43 am

(f) outside the Immigration Rules.
UKA 18.3A. An applicant who is applying for permission
to stay and has, or last had, permission as a Student,
must fulfil one of the Conditions A or B below on the
date of application:
(a) Condition A: the applicant must have completed
the course of study for which the Confirmation of
Acceptance for Studies was assigned (or a course to
which ST 27.3 of Appendix Student applies); or
(b) Condition B: the applicant must:
(i) be studying a full-time course of study leading
to the award of a PhD with a higher education
provider which has a track record of compliance;
and
(ii) have completed at least 24 months of study
on that course.
UKA 18.4. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for a partner or child on the UK
Ancestry route may be rejected as invalid and not
considered.
Suitability requirements for a dependent partner or
dependent child on the UK Ancestry route
UKA 19.1. The suitability requirements for a dependent
partner or dependent child on the UK Ancestry route are
that they must not fall for refusal under Part Suitability.
UKA 19.2. The applicant must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.
Eligibility requirements for a dependent partner or
dependent child on the UK Ancestry route
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-uk-ancestry

Page 9 of 17

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix UK Ancestry - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:43 am

Entry requirement for a dependent partner or
dependent child on the UK Ancestry route
UKA 20.1. A person seeking to come to the UK as a
partner or child must apply for and obtain an entry
clearance as a partner or child before they arrive in the
UK.
UKA 20.2. A person applying for entry clearance as a
partner or child on the UK Ancestry route must, if
Appendix Tuberculosis applies, provide a valid medical
certificate confirming that they have undergone
screening for active pulmonary tuberculosis and that this
tuberculosis is not present in them.
Relationship requirements for a partner on the UK
Ancestry route
UKA 21.1. The applicant must be the partner of a
person (P) and one of the following must apply:
(a) P has permission on the UK Ancestry route; or
(b) P is, at the same time, applying for (and is
granted) permission on the UK Ancestry route; or
(c) if the applicant is applying for permission to stay,
P is settled or has become a British citizen,
providing P had permission on the UK Ancestry
route when they settled.
UKA 21.2. The requirements of Appendix Relationship
with Partner must be met.
UKA 21.3. DELETED
UKA 21.4. DELETED
Relationship requirement for a dependent child on
the UK Ancestry route
UKA 22.1. DELETED.
UKA 22.2. DELETED.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-uk-ancestry

Page 10 of 17

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix UK Ancestry - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:43 am

Care requirement for a dependent child on the UK
Ancestry route
UKA 23.1. DELETED.
Age requirement for a dependent child on the UK
Ancestry route
UKA 24.1. DELETED.
UKA 24.2. DELETED.
Requirements for a dependent child on the UK
Ancestry route
UKA 24A.1. The applicant must meet the following
requirements for a dependent child in Appendix
Children:
(a) relationship requirement: entry clearance and
permission to stay; and
(b) care requirement; and
(c) age and independent life requirement.
Financial requirement for a partner or child on the
UK Ancestry route
UKA 25.1. The decision maker must be satisfied that
there will be adequate maintenance and
accommodation for the applicant, the person with UK
Ancestry, and any other dependants in the UK, without
recourse to public funds.
UKA 25.2. Funds must be shown as specified in
Appendix Finance.
UKA 25.3. In assessing whether the applicant meets the
financial requirement in UKA 25.1, the decision maker
may take into account credible promises of financial
support from a third party, such as a relative or friend of
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-uk-ancestry

Page 11 of 17

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix UK Ancestry - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:43 am

the applicant.
Decision on an application for a dependent partner
and dependent child on the UK Ancestry route
UKA 26.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all the
suitability and eligibility requirements are met for a
dependent partner or dependent child on the UK
Ancestry route, the application will be granted,
otherwise the application will be refused.
UKA 26.2. If the application is refused the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.
Period of grant for a dependent partner and
dependent child on the UK Ancestry route
UKA 27.1. Unless UKA 27.2 applies, the applicant will
be granted permission which ends on the same date as
the person with UK Ancestry.
UKA 27.2. If the application is for permission to stay,
and the person with UK Ancestry is being, or has been,
granted settlement on the UK Ancestry route, or has
become a British Citizen having previously had
permission on the UK Ancestry route, the applicant will
be granted permission to stay for 30 months.
Conditions of grant for a dependent partner and
dependent child on the UK Ancestry route
UKA 27.3. The grant will be subject to all the following
conditions:
(a) no access to public funds; and
(b) work (including self-employment and voluntary
work) permitted; and
(c) study is permitted, subject to the ATAS condition
in Appendix ATAS.
(d) DELETED
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-uk-ancestry

Page 12 of 17

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix UK Ancestry - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:43 am

Settlement by a dependent partner and dependent
child on the UK Ancestry route
Validity requirements for settlement by a dependent
partner or dependent child on the UK Ancestry
route
UKA 28.1. A partner or child on the UK Ancestry route
who is applying for settlement must apply online on the
gov.uk website on the specified form “Settle in the UK in
various immigration categories: form SET(O)”.
UKA 28.2. An application for settlement must meet all
the following requirements:
(a) any fee must have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided either a
passport or other travel document which
satisfactorily establishes their identity and
nationality; and
(d) the applicant must be in the UK; and
(e) the applicant must be applying as a partner or
child of a person (P) who:
(i) has made a valid application for settlement on
the UK Ancestry route and that application has
not been decided; or
(ii) is settled or has become a British citizen,
providing P had permission on the UK Ancestry
route when they settled.
UKA 28.3. The applicant must not have, or have last
been granted, permission:
(a) as a Visitor; or
(b) as a Short-term Student; or
(c) as a Parent of a Child Student; or
(d) as a Seasonal Worker; or
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-uk-ancestry

Page 13 of 17

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix UK Ancestry - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:43 am

(e) as a Domestic Worker in a Private Household; or
(f) outside the Immigration Rules.
UKA 28.3A. An applicant who has, or last had,
permission as a Student, must fulfil one of the
Conditions A or B below on the date of application:
(a) Condition A: the applicant must have completed
the course of study for which the Confirmation of
Acceptance for Studies was assigned (or a course to
which ST 27.3 of Appendix Student applies); or
(b) Condition B: the applicant must:
(i) be studying a full-time course of study leading
to the award of a PhD with a higher education
provider which has a track record of compliance;
and
(ii) have completed at least 24 months of study
on that course.
UKA 28.4. An application which does not meet the
validity requirements for settlement as a partner or child
on the UK Ancestry route may be rejected as invalid and
not considered.
Suitability requirements for settlement by a
dependent partner and dependent child on the UK
Ancestry route
UKA 29.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
UKA 29.2. The applicant must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.
Eligibility requirements for settlement by a
dependent partner or dependent child on the UK
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-uk-ancestry

Page 14 of 17

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix UK Ancestry - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:43 am

Ancestry route
Relationship requirement for settlement by a partner or
child on the UK Ancestry route
UKA 30.1. The applicant must be the partner or child of
a person (P) where one of the following applies:
(a) P is, at the same time, being granted settlement
on the UK Ancestry route; or
(b) P is settled or has become a British citizen,
providing P had permission on the UK Ancestry
route when they settled.
UKA 30.2. If applying as a partner, the requirements of
Appendix Relationship with Partner must be met.
UKA 30.3. DELETED
UKA 30.4. DELETED
UKA 30.5. If applying as a child, the applicant must
meet the relationship requirement for settlement in
Appendix Children.
Care requirement for settlement by a child on the
UK Ancestry route
UKA 31.1. DELETED.
Age requirement for settlement by a child on the UK
Ancestry route
UKA 32.1. DELETED.
UKA 32.2. DELETED.
Requirements for settlement as a dependent child
on the UK Ancestry route
UKA 32A.1. The applicant must meet the following
requirements for a dependent child in Appendix
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-uk-ancestry

Page 15 of 17

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix UK Ancestry - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:43 am

Children:
(a) care requirement; and
(b) age and independent life requirement.
Financial requirement for settlement for a partner or
child on the UK Ancestry route
UKA 33.1. The decision maker must be satisfied that
there will be adequate maintenance and
accommodation for the applicant, the person with UK
Ancestry, and any other dependants in the UK, without
recourse to public funds.
UKA 33.2. Funds must be shown as specified in
Appendix Finance.
UKA 33.3. In assessing whether the applicant meets the
financial requirement in UKA 33.1, the decision maker
may take into account credible promises of financial
support from a third party, such as a relative or friend of
the applicant.
English language requirement for settlement by a
partner or child on the UK Ancestry route
UKA 34.1. Unless an exemption applies, the applicant
must:
(a) Where the date of application is before 26 March
2027, the applicant must, unless an exemption
applies, show English language ability on the
Common European Framework of Reference for
Languages in speaking and listening to at least level
B1; or
(b) Where the date of application is on or after 26
March 2027, the applicant must, unless an
exemption applies, show English language ability on
the Common European Framework of Reference for
Languages in speaking and listening to at least level
B2.
UKA 34.2. The applicant must show they meet the
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-uk-ancestry

Page 16 of 17

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix UK Ancestry - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:43 am

English language requirement as specified in Appendix
English Language.
Knowledge of life in the UK requirement for
settlement by a partner or child on the UK Ancestry
route
UKA 35.1 If the applicant is aged 18 or over at the date
of application, they must meet the Knowledge of Life in
the UK requirement as set out in Appendix KOL UK.
Decision on an application for settlement as a
partner or child on the UK Ancestry route
UKA 36.1. If the decision maker is satisfied all the
suitability and eligibility requirements are met for
settlement as a dependent partner or dependent child
on the UK Ancestry route the applicant will be granted
settlement, otherwise the application will be refused.
UKA 36.2. If the application is refused the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-uk-ancestry

© Crown copyright

Page 17 of 17

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix UK/European Applicant Transfer Scheme - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:57 am

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix UK/European
Applicant Transfer Scheme
Immigration Rules Appendix UK/European
Applicant Transfer Scheme
Under the UK/European Applicant Transfer Scheme
(‘Scheme’), the Secretary of State will transfer a limited
number of people from France to the UK. The total
number of people transferred to the UK will correlate
with the number of people who are removed from the
UK under the pilot arrangement on the prevention of
dangerous journeys.
Applicants to the UK/European Applicant Transfer
Scheme must be aged 18 or over at the time they
submit their application, unless they are applying with a
family member who is over the age of 18.
There is a two-stage application process under the
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-uk-european-applicant-transfer-scheme

Page 1 of 8

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix UK/European Applicant Transfer Scheme - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:57 am

Scheme. An applicant must first submit an Expression
of Interest application.
The Scheme operates application windows for
Expression of Interest applications to be submitted. The
Secretary of State for the Home Department will
determine any application window. Expression of
Interest applications submitted outside an application
window will be rejected.
Expression of Interest applications that are made from
outside France will not be considered. For Expressions
of Interest applications made from within France, the
Home Office will decide which Expression of Interest
applications will proceed to Entry Clearance, in line with
prioritisation criteria set out in guidance for the Scheme.
Any outstanding Expression of Interest applications at
the time the pilot closes will be rejected.
When an Expression of Interest application is selected,
the Home Office will complete an application for entry
clearance on behalf of the applicant. Entry clearance
applications will be considered against the requirements
set out in these Rules.
The Secretary of State may, at their discretion, pause
consideration of applications under the scheme to
assess whether the volume required to match returns
has been met, and will close the scheme when the
volume required has been reached.
This Scheme cannot be used to apply for leave outside
the Rules.

Definitions
For the purposes of this Appendix, a “family group”
means two or more applicants who are related to one
another as a parent, child or partner, who have
confirmed on their Expression of Interest application that
they are applying with other family members.
For the purposes of this Appendix, a “family reference
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-uk-european-applicant-transfer-scheme

Page 2 of 8

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix UK/European Applicant Transfer Scheme - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:57 am

number” means the reference provided to an applicant
who applies first and indicates that they are applying as
part of a family group. That applicant then provides the
family reference number to all other members of the
family group for them to provide as part of their
Expression of Interest application.
For the purposes of this Appendix, “the cap’’ means the
total number of individuals removed from the UK
through the pilot arrangement on prevention of
dangerous journeys at the end of the pilot period.
For the purposes of this Appendix, “application window”
means a period determined by the Secretary of State for
the Home Department in which Expression of Interest
applications may be submitted under the UK/European
Applicant Transfer Scheme, having regard to the need
to meet the cap.

Void applications
UEATS 1.1. A person’s Expression of Interest
application will be void if a person has previously
submitted an Expression of Interest application and any
of the following apply:
a) it was rejected because the person was outside
France; or
b) the stated family unit applying has changed
between applications (unless the change is as a
result of a birth or death in the family); or
c) entry clearance was refused.
UEATS 1.2. A person cannot make multiple active
applications at the same time. Where multiple
applications are made, only one will be considered.
UEATS 1.3. A person’s entry clearance application will
be void if they have not provided any required
biometrics.
UEATS 1.4. If a person with an outstanding Expression
of Interest or Entry Clearance application under this
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-uk-european-applicant-transfer-scheme

Page 3 of 8

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix UK/European Applicant Transfer Scheme - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:57 am

Scheme travels to the UK and arrives or enters without
permission, their application will be void.

Validity requirements
UEATS 2.1. A person making an Expression of Interest
application for the UK/European Applicant Transfer
Scheme must apply online using the specified form:
Register for the UK/European Applicant Transfer
scheme.
UEATS 2.2. A person making an Expression of Interest
application for the UK/European Applicant Transfer
Scheme must be in France when they submit their
application as confirmed by information requested by
the Home Office to confirm their location.
UEATS 2.3. An Expression of Interest for the
UK/European Applicant Transfer Scheme must meet all
the following requirements:
a) the applicant must be aged 18 or over on the date
the Expression of Interest application is submitted
unless they are applying as part of a family group
with a parent who is aged 18 or over; and
b) the applicant must not be an EEA national, or
enjoy free movement rights as a family member of
an EEA national; and
c) the applicant must upload a copy of a passport or
other document and a recent photograph which
satisfactorily establishes their identity and nationality
as part of their Expression of Interest application;
and
d) the applicant must have submitted their
Expression of Interest application within an
application window; and
e) the applicant must not have been granted
international protection by another country which, for
this purpose, includes being officially recognised as
stateless; and
f) the applicant must not have immigration
permission in France; and
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-uk-european-applicant-transfer-scheme

Page 4 of 8

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix UK/European Applicant Transfer Scheme - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:57 am

g) the applicant must not have declared any
information on their Expression of Interest
application form that could lead to a refusal under
Part Suitability.
UEATS 2.4. An applicant who is applying first as part of
a family group must:
a) confirm on their Expression of Interest application
form that they are applying as part of a family group;
and
b) have listed the names of all other family members
who are applying as part of their family group on
their Expression of Interest application.
UEATS 2.5. All family members in a family group
applying after the first applicant must:
a) indicate that they are applying as part of a family
group on their Expression of Interest application;
and
b) provide the family reference number for their
family group on their Expression of Interest
application as provided to them by the first applicant;
and
c) provide satisfactory evidence of their family
connection to the family group.
UEATS 2.6. An Expression of Interest application under
the UK/European Applicant Transfer Scheme which
does not meet all of the validity requirements will be
rejected as invalid and not considered.
UEATS 2.7. If an Expression of Interest application
under the UK/European Applicant Transfer Scheme
submitted as part of a family group is rejected as invalid,
all linked applications in that family group will also be
rejected as invalid and not considered.
UEATS 2.8. An application for entry clearance under the
UK/European Applicant Transfer Scheme must meet all
the following requirements:
a) The application for entry clearance must have
been made by the Home Office on behalf of the
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-uk-european-applicant-transfer-scheme

Page 5 of 8

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix UK/European Applicant Transfer Scheme - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:57 am

applicant after a valid Expression of Interest
application has been selected for consideration for
entry clearance; and
b) The applicant must have provided any required
biometrics; and
c) The applicant must have provided a passport or
other document which satisfactorily established their
identity and nationality.
UEATS 2.9. An Expression of Interest application
submitted after the cap has been reached will be
rejected.
UEATS 2.10. Expression of Interest applications will be
rejected if they have not been selected for consideration
for entry clearance at the point the cap is reached.

Suitability requirements
UEATS 3.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
UEATS 3.2. The applicant must not have previously
entered or arrived illegally in the UK.

Entry clearance application eligibility
requirements
UEATS 4.1. The applicant must not have been granted
international protection in another country since
submitting their Expression of Interest application.
UEATS 4.2. The applicant must not have immigration
status in France.

Decision on an application for
UK/European Applicant Transfer
Scheme
UEATS 5.1. An entry clearance application which does
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-uk-european-applicant-transfer-scheme

Page 6 of 8

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix UK/European Applicant Transfer Scheme - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:57 am

not meet the suitability or eligibility requirements will be
refused, otherwise it will be granted, subject to UEATS
5.2. and UEATS 5.3.
UEATS 5.2. If the entry clearance application was
submitted as part of a family group and is refused, entry
clearance will be refused in respect of all linked
applications in that family group.
UEATS 5.3. If the cap has been reached before entry
clearance is granted, the entry clearance application will
be refused regardless of whether the Expression of
Interest application is valid.

Cancellation of permission under
UK/European Applicant Transfer
Scheme
UEATS 6.1. Permission under the UK/European
Applicant Transfer Scheme may be cancelled if:
a) the applicant ceases to meet the requirements of
the Rules under which the entry clearance was
granted; or
b) the applicant does not present for travel to the
UK, without reasonable excuse, when directed by
the Home Office; or
c) the applicant does not collect their visa, without
reasonable excuse, when directed by the Home
Office; or
d) the applicant has been granted international
protection elsewhere; or
e) it is discovered that the applicant had immigration
permission in France at the time they applied or
were being considered under the Scheme.

Period and conditions under
UK/European Applicant Transfer
Scheme
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-uk-european-applicant-transfer-scheme

Page 7 of 8

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix UK/European Applicant Transfer Scheme - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:57 am

UEATS 7.1. The applicant will be granted entry
clearance to come to the UK for a period of up to three
months.
UEATS 7.2. The grant of entry clearance will be subject
to all the following conditions:
a) No access to public funds; and
b) No work is permitted; and
c) No study is permitted.

Travel document
UEATS 8.1. A person granted permission under
UK/European Applicant Transfer Scheme will be
provided with a travel document to use to travel to the
UK.

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-uk-european-applicant-transfer-scheme

© Crown copyright

Page 8 of 8

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Ukraine Scheme - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix Ukraine Scheme
Appendix Ukraine Scheme
This Appendix sets out 2 routes for those affected by
the conflict in Ukraine: the Homes for Ukraine
Sponsorship Scheme for those applying from outside
the UK and the Ukraine Permission Extension Scheme.
Homes for Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme
A Ukrainian national who is outside the UK may qualify
under the Homes for Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme if
they have an Approved sponsor who will provide them
with accommodation for at least 6 months.
A child who is not applying with, or intending to join,
their parent or legal guardian in the UK must have an
Approved sponsor who has been approved for the child
by a Local Authority before the application is made. The
sponsor must have agreed to accommodate the child for
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-ukraine-scheme

Page 1 of 20

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Ukraine Scheme - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

at least 18 months or until the child is 18 (whichever is
soonest), so long as the child is sponsored for at least 6
months.
Immediate family members of a Ukrainian national who
are not themselves Ukrainian may also qualify under the
Homes for Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme.
Ukraine Permission Extension Scheme
A person in the UK who holds, or has previously held,
permission under the Ukraine Family Scheme, Ukraine
Extension Scheme, Homes for Ukraine Scheme or
leave outside the rules as specified in UKR 29.3(b) or
(c) may qualify for permission to stay in the UK under
the Ukraine Permission Extension Scheme. This will
usually comprise an initial grant of up to 18 months
permission to stay, followed by a further grant of up to
24 months permission.
Children born in the UK to Ukrainian nationals who have
permission under Appendix Ukraine Scheme are eligible
to apply under the Ukraine Permission Extension
Scheme.
The Ukraine Family Scheme (which was available to
Ukrainian nationals with an eligible UK based family
member sponsor) closed to new applications at
1500GMT on 19 February 2024.
The Ukraine Extension Scheme (which was available to
eligible Ukrainian nationals or their close family
members) closed to most new applications on 16 May
2024. It remained open to children born in the UK to
parents who had permission under any of the Ukraine
Schemes. The scheme closed in its entirety at
0900GMT on 4 February 2025.
The Ukraine Schemes (including the now closed
Ukraine Family Scheme and Ukraine Extension
Scheme) are not a route to settlement.

Ukraine Family Scheme
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-ukraine-scheme

Page 2 of 20

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Ukraine Scheme - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

Validity requirements for the Ukraine Family
Scheme
UKR 1.1. DELETED.
UKR 1.2. DELETED.
UKR 1.3. DELETED.
Suitability requirements for the Ukraine Family
Scheme
UKR 2.1. DELETED.
Eligibility requirements for the Ukraine Family
Scheme
Entry requirements for the Ukraine Family Scheme
UKR 3.1. DELETED.
Variation of entry clearance application after arrival
for person given letter authorising travel to UK
UKR 4.1. DELETED.
Residence requirement for the Ukraine Family
Scheme
UKR 5.1. DELETED.
UKR 5.2. DELETED.
Relationship requirement for a family member under
the Ukraine Family Scheme
UKR 6.1. DELETED.
UKR 6.2. DELETED.
UKR 6.3. DELETED.
UKR 6.4. DELETED.
Suitability of UK based sponsor requirement

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-ukraine-scheme

Page 3 of 20

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Ukraine Scheme - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

UKR 6A.1. DELETED.
Nationality requirement for the Ukraine Family
Scheme
UKR 7.1. DELETED.
Parental consent requirement for a child applying
under the Ukraine Family Scheme
UKR 8.1. DELETED.
UKR 8.2. DELETED.
Decision under the Ukraine Family Scheme
UKR 9.1. DELETED.
Period and conditions of grant under the Ukraine
Family Scheme
UKR 10.1. DELETED.
UKR 10.2. DELETED.

Homes for Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme
Validity requirements for the Homes for Ukraine
Sponsorship Scheme
UKR 11.1. A person applying for entry clearance under
the Homes for Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme must apply
online on the gov.uk website on the specified form:
“Homes for Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme”.
UKR 11.2. An application for entry clearance under the
Homes for Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme must meet all
the following requirements:
(a) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(b) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other document which satisfactorily established their
identity and nationality; and
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-ukraine-scheme

Page 4 of 20

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Ukraine Scheme - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

(c) the applicant must be outside the UK on the date
of application: and
(d) the applicant must have provided the name of a
UK sponsor who has offered them accommodation
in the UK.
UKR 11.3. If the applicant is aged under 18 on the date
of application they must either:
(a) be applying with, or to join in the UK, their parent
or legal guardian; or
(b) their sponsor must have been approved as a
sponsor for that applicant under the Homes for
Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme under the guidance:
“Homes for Ukraine - Applications to Homes for
Ukraine for children who are not travelling or
reuniting with their parent or legal guardian:
Guidance for Councils” before the date of application
and the applicant must provide evidence of that
approval in the form of a reference number.
UKR 11.3A. If an application for entry clearance under
the Homes for Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme is varied to
permission to stay, the applicant must meet all the
following requirements:
(a) they must have provided biometrics when
required; and
(b) they must have provided a passport or other
document which satisfactorily established their
identity and nationality; and
(c) they must be in the UK on the date of application.
UKR 11.4. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for the Homes for Ukraine
Sponsorship Scheme may be rejected as invalid and not
considered.
Suitability requirements for the Homes for Ukraine
Sponsorship Scheme
UKR 12.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
any of the following paragraphs of Part Suitability:
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-ukraine-scheme

Page 5 of 20

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Ukraine Scheme - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

(a) SUI 2.1. to SUI 2.2. (exclusion or deportation
orders); or
(b) SUI 3.1. to SUI 3.2. (non-conducive); or
(c) SUI 4.1. to SUI 4.2. (exclusion from asylum or
humanitarian protection); or
(d) SUI 5.1. to SUI 5.5. (criminality); or
(e) SUI 8.1. to SUI 8.2. (involvement in sham
marriage or sham civil partnership); or
(f) SUI 9.1., SUI 10.1. and SUI 10.2. (false
representations and deception); or
(g) SUI 11.1. to SUI 11.8. (previous breach of
immigration laws); or
(h) SUI 14.1. to SUI 14.2. (failure to provide required
information); or
(i) SUI 15.1. to SUI 15.2. (admissibility to the
Common Travel Area or other countries); or
(j) SUI 20.1. to SUI 25.2. and SUI 28.1. to SUI 30.1.
(grounds for refusal and cancellation on arrival).
Eligibility requirements for the Homes for Ukraine
Sponsorship Scheme
Entry requirements for the Homes for Ukraine
Sponsorship Scheme
UKR 13.1. A person seeking to come to the UK under
the Homes for Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme must apply
for and obtain entry clearance under Appendix Ukraine
Scheme before they arrive in the UK.
Variation of entry clearance application after arrival
for person holding permission to travel on arrival
UKR 14.1. DELETED.
UKR 14.2. DELETED.
Approved sponsor requirement for the Homes for
Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme
UKR 15.1. An applicant under the Homes for Ukraine
Sponsorship Scheme must have an Approved sponsor
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-ukraine-scheme

Page 6 of 20

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Ukraine Scheme - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

under the Homes for Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme.
UKR 15.2. If a family group is applying under the Homes
for Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme, the Ukrainian national
and their immediate family members (meaning an
individual set out in UKR 18.1.) must have the same
Approved sponsor under the Homes for Ukraine
Sponsorship Scheme.
UKR 15.2A. If the applicant is a child on the date of
application:
(a) they must be applying with, or to join in the UK,
their parent or legal guardian; or
(b) their sponsor must have been approved as a
sponsor for that applicant under the Homes for
Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme under the guidance:
“Homes for Ukraine - Applications to Homes for
Ukraine for children who are not travelling or
reuniting with their parent or legal guardian:
Guidance for Councils” before the date of application
and the applicant must provide evidence of that
approval in the form of a reference number.
UKR 15.3. If the applicant is a child, the Approved
sponsor must not previously have failed to meet the
requirements for approval as a sponsor under the
Homes for Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme under the
guidance: “Homes for Ukraine - Applications to Homes
for Ukraine for children who are not travelling or
reuniting with their parent or legal guardian: Guidance
for Councils”.
UKR 15.4. If a child is not applying with or to join their
parent or legal guardian, but they are applying with or to
join an adult relative (meaning a grandparent, uncle,
aunt or sibling aged 18 or older) who qualifies under the
Homes for Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme, the child and
the adult relative must have the same Approved
sponsor.
Residence requirement for the Homes for Ukraine
Sponsorship Scheme
UKR 16.1. An applicant applying for entry clearance
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-ukraine-scheme

Page 7 of 20

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Ukraine Scheme - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

under the Homes for Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme
must have been ordinarily resident in Ukraine
immediately before 1 January 2022, unless they are a
child born on or after that date.
Nationality requirement for the Homes for Ukraine
Sponsorship Scheme
UKR 17.1. The applicant must be either:
(a) a Ukrainian national; or
(b) part of an immediate family group (meaning the
group set out in UKR 18.1.) which includes an
immediate family member who is a Ukrainian
national who has been granted under or is applying
under and qualifies under the Homes for Ukraine
Sponsorship Scheme.
Relationship requirement for a family member under
the Homes for Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme
UKR 18.1. If the applicant is not a Ukrainian national,
they must be the immediate family member of a
Ukrainian national who has been granted under or is
applying under and qualifies under the Homes for
Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme, meaning a:
(a) partner of the Ukrainian national; or
(b) child aged under 18 on the date of application of
the Ukrainian national or of their partner; or
(c) parent of a Ukrainian national child aged under
18 on the date of application (if the child is applying
under the Homes for Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme);
or
(d) fiancé(e) or proposed civil partner of the
Ukrainian national.
UKR 18.2. If applying as a partner, fiancé(e) or
proposed civil partner, the applicant must be in a
genuine and subsisting relationship with the Ukrainian
national which commenced before 1 January 2022.
UKR 18.3. If applying as a partner, the requirements of
Appendix Relationship with Partner must be met.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-ukraine-scheme

Page 8 of 20

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Ukraine Scheme - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

Parental consent requirement for a child applying to
join a parent or legal guardian in the UK under the
Homes for Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme
UKR 19A.1. If the applicant is aged under 18 on the
date of application and they are joining (and not
accompanying) a parent or legal guardian in the UK,
they must have written consent from the parent or legal
guardian in the UK who they are joining, unless the
decision maker is satisfied it is reasonable in the
circumstances to grant the child entry clearance without
that consent.
UKR 19A.2 The written consent must confirm all of the
following:
(a) support for the application; and
(b) that the applicant will live with the parent or legal
guardian in the UK; and
(c) that the parent or legal guardian has permission
to stay in the UK; and
(d) the applicant’s travel to, and reception
arrangements in, the UK.
Parental consent requirement for a child applying
without their parent or legal guardian
UKR 19B.1. If a child is not applying with, or to join in
the UK, a parent or legal guardian the applicant must
have provided written consent from a parent or legal
guardian to the child coming to live in the UK with the
named sponsor (who was approved for the applicant
under UKR 11.3(b)) and any adult relative who is
applying with the child. The consent must be signed by
at least one parent or the child’s legal guardian, and
notarised or approved by:
(a) the notary authorities or Guardianship service of
the city/regional council in Ukraine; or
(b) if the applicant is outside Ukraine, notary
authorities in the country the applicant is residing in
or a Ukrainian Embassy or Consulate.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-ukraine-scheme

Page 9 of 20

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Ukraine Scheme - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

Decision on an application under the Homes for
Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme
UKR 19.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all the
suitability and eligibility requirements under the Homes
for Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme are met, the
application will be granted; otherwise, the application
will be refused.
Period of grant for the Homes for Ukraine
Sponsorship Scheme
UKR 20.1. The applicant will be granted permission for
a period of up to 18 months.
Conditions of grant for the Homes for Ukraine
Sponsorship Scheme
UKR 20.2. The permission will be granted subject to the
following conditions:
(a) access to public funds permitted; and
(b) work (including self-employment and voluntary
work) permitted; and
(c) study permitted, subject to the Academic
Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS) condition in
Appendix ATAS.

Ukraine Extension Scheme
Validity requirements for the Ukraine Extension
Scheme
UKR 21.1. DELETED
UKR 21.2. DELETED
UKR 21.3. DELETED
UKR 21.4. DELETED
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-ukraine-scheme

Page 10 of 20

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Ukraine Scheme - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

Suitability requirements for the Ukraine Extension
Scheme
UKR 22.1. DELETED
Eligibility requirements for the Ukraine Extension
Scheme
Nationality requirement for the Ukraine Extension
Scheme
UKR 23.1. DELETED
UKR 23A.1. DELETED
Relationship requirement for a partner or child
under the Ukraine Extension Scheme
UKR 24.1. DELETED
UKR 24.2. DELETED
Parental consent requirement for a child applying
under the Ukraine Extension Scheme
UKR 25.1. DELETED
UKR 25.2. DELETED
Care requirement for a child under the Ukraine
Extension Scheme
UKR 26.1. DELETED
Decision under the Ukraine Extension Scheme
UKR 27.1. DELETED
Period and conditions of grant under the Ukraine
Extension Scheme
UKR 28.1. DELETED
UKR 28.2. DELETED

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-ukraine-scheme

Page 11 of 20

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Ukraine Scheme - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

Ukraine Permission Extension Scheme
Validity requirements for the Ukraine Permission
Extension Scheme
UKR 29.1. A person applying for permission to stay
under the Ukraine Permission Extension Scheme must
apply online on the gov.uk website on the specified form
“Ukraine Permission Extension Scheme”.
UKR 29.2. An application for permission to stay under
the Ukraine Permission Extension Scheme must meet
all the following requirements:
(a) it has not been made more than 90 days before
expiry of the applicant’s current permission; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other document which satisfactorily established their
identity and nationality; and
(d) the applicant must be in the UK on the date of
application.
UKR 29.3. The applicant must have been granted
permission in the UK or Islands:
(a) under Appendix Ukraine Scheme, or the
equivalent permission granted in the Islands; or
(b) outside the rules on or between 20 February
2022 and 2 May 2022, on the basis that the
applicant would have been granted permission
under Appendix Ukraine Scheme had those rules
been in force at that date; or
(c) outside the rules as a person who is:
i) a Ukrainian national, or their family member as
defined by section 8(3) of the Immigration Act
1971; and
ii) was in the UK and exempt from immigration
control in accordance with the Immigration Act
1971 between 18 March 2022 and 16 November
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-ukraine-scheme

Page 12 of 20

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Ukraine Scheme - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

2023; and
iii) would have met the requirements of Appendix
Ukraine Scheme if they had ceased to be
exempt from immigration control between 18
March 2022 and 16 November 2023; and
iv) ceased being exempt from immigration
control between 16 November 2023 and 4
February 2025; or
v) a family member who does not meet the
conditions of section 8(3) of the Immigration Act
1971, of a Ukrainian national who would have
met the requirements to act as a sponsor under
the Ukraine Family Scheme on or before 15:00
GMT 19 February 2024 had they (the Ukrainian
national) not been exempt from immigration
control in accordance with the Immigration Act
1971 at that time; or
vi) a member of a group who was transferred to
the UK between 14 February 2022 to 30 March
2022 inclusive in order to facilitate their
relocation from Dnipro as a result of a specific
agreement with the Ukrainian Government; or
vii) a person who was admitted to the UK for the
purposes of urgent medical treatment in the UK
following agreement about such treatment with
the Department of Health and Social Care in
their particular case; or
viii) the parent or carer of a child who meets the
conditions of UKR 29.3(c)(vi) or UKR 29.3(c)(vii),
or
ix) a child who made a Homes for Ukraine
Scheme application before 10 August 2022 and
met the requirements for the concession to
Appendix Ukraine Scheme as set out in the
Homes for Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme
guidance from 15 July 2022; or
(x) a child who was granted permission to enter
the UK prior to 31 January 2025 on the basis
that they had a parent or legal guardian who held
permission under Appendix Ukraine Scheme, or
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-ukraine-scheme

Page 13 of 20

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Ukraine Scheme - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

the equivalent permission granted in the Islands,
or in accordance with the provisions set out at
UKR 29.3(b).
UKR 29.4. UKR 29.3 does not apply if the applicant is a
child who was born in the UK or Islands after 18 March
2022 to a Ukrainian national parent who was granted
permission under Appendix Ukraine Scheme or the
equivalent permission in the Islands.
UKR 29.5. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for the Ukraine Permission
Extension Scheme may be rejected as invalid and not
considered.
Suitability requirements for the Ukraine Permission
Extension Scheme
UKR 30.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
any of the following paragraphs of Part Suitability:
(a) SUI 2.1. to SUI 2.2. (exclusion or deportation
orders); or
(b) SUI 3.1. to SUI 3.2. (non-conducive); or
(c) SUI 4.1. to SUI 4.2. (exclusion from asylum or
humanitarian protection); or
(d) SUI 5.1. to SUI 5.5. (criminality); or
(e) SUI 8.1. to SUI 8.2. (involvement in sham
marriage or sham civil partnership); or
(f) SUI 9.1., SUI 10.1. and SUI 10.2. (false
representations and deception); or
(g) SUI 11.1. to SUI 11.8. (previous breach of
immigration laws); or
(h) SUI 14.1. to SUI 14.2. (failure to provide required
information); or
(i) SUI 15.1. to SUI 15.2. (admissibility to the
Common Travel Area or other countries); or
(j) SUI 20.1. to SUI 25.2. and SUI 28.1. to 30.1.
(grounds for refusal and cancellation on arrival).
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-ukraine-scheme

Page 14 of 20

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Ukraine Scheme - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

UKR 30.2. A period of overstaying will be disregarded
for the purpose of Part Suitability if the Exceptions for
overstayers section of Part Suitability applies.
Eligibility requirements for the Ukraine Permission
Extension Scheme
Nationality requirement for the Ukraine Permission
Extension Scheme
UKR 31.1. The applicant must be either:
(a) a Ukrainian national who was previously granted
permission in accordance with UKR 29.3; or
(b) if not a Ukrainian national, an individual who was
previously granted permission in accordance with
UKR 29.3, as, and who remains:
(i) the partner of a Ukrainian national; or
(ii) the child of a Ukrainian national; or
(iii) the parent of a Ukrainian national who was
granted permission under Appendix Ukraine
Scheme before they turned 18 years old; or
(iv) the fiancé(e) or proposed civil partner of a
Ukrainian national; or
(v) a family member granted permission in
accordance with the rules at the time in
Appendix Ukraine Scheme on the now closed
Ukraine Family Scheme; or
(vi) a carer of a child who meets the conditions at
UKR 29.3(c)(vi) or UKR 29.3(c)(vii); or
(c) an individual who is the parent of a child who:
(i) was born in the UK or Islands and is in the UK
or Islands with permission under Appendix
Ukraine Scheme or the equivalent permission in
the Islands; or
(ii) was born in the UK or Islands and meets the
criteria at UKR 29.4 and who would, if they made
an application, be eligible for permission under
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-ukraine-scheme

Page 15 of 20

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Ukraine Scheme - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

Appendix Ukraine Scheme; or
(d) a child who was born in the UK or Islands after
18 March 2022 to a Ukrainian national parent.
UKR 31.2. A child born in the UK or Islands must
provide a full UK birth certificate showing the names of
their parent(s).
UKR 31.3. For the purpose of the Ukraine Permission
Extension Scheme “parent” does not include a stepparent unless they are the legal or adoptive parent of
the child.
Relationship requirement for a partner or parent
under the Ukraine Permission Extension Scheme
UKR 32.1. If the applicant previously qualified for
permission under UKR 29.3 based on their relationship
as the non-Ukrainian partner of a Ukrainian national,
they must either:
(a) continue to be in a relationship with a Ukrainian
national who has, or previously had permission
under Appendix Ukraine Scheme, and the
requirements of Appendix Relationship with Partner
must be met; or
(b) be the parent or legal guardian of a child who is
in the UK with permission, under Appendix Ukraine
Scheme, or a child who meets the criteria at UKR
29.4 and who would, if they made an application, be
eligible for permission under this Appendix.
UKR 32.2. To meet the requirements of UKR 32.1(b) as
a parent, a birth certificate showing the names of the
child’s parent(s) must be provided.
UKR 32.3. To meet the requirements of UKR 32.1(b) as
a legal guardian, a court order or government issued
document naming the applicant as the legal guardian of
the child must be provided.
UKR 32.4. If an applicant cannot provide the required
documents set out in UKR 32.2 or UKR 32.3, other
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-ukraine-scheme

Page 16 of 20

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Ukraine Scheme - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

evidence demonstrating that they are the parent or legal
guardian of the child may be considered.
Residence requirement for the Ukraine Permission
Extension Scheme
UKR 33.1. An application may be refused if the
applicant has not been living in the UK and Islands
since they:
(a) arrived in the UK with permission in accordance
with UKR 29.3; or
(b) were granted permission in accordance with
UKR 29.3 in the UK; or
(c) were born in the UK or Islands pursuant to UKR
31.1(d) to a Ukrainian national parent with
permission under UKR 29.3.
UKR 33.2. Temporary periods spent in Ukraine will not
be regarded as living outside of the UK and Islands for
the purpose of UKR 33.1.
UKR 33.3. Temporary periods spent outside the UK and
Islands or Ukraine may not be regarded as living outside
of the UK and Islands for the purpose of UKR 33.1 if an
applicant can demonstrate ongoing ties to the UK which
require a grant of further permission.
Parental consent requirement for a child applying
under the Ukraine Permission Extension Scheme
UKR 34.1. If the applicant is aged under 18 on the date
of application and they will not be living with their parent
or legal guardian, they must have written consent from:
(a) both parents; or
(b) one parent, if that parent has sole legal
responsibility for the applicant; or
(c) the applicant’s legal guardian,
unless the decision maker is satisfied it is reasonable in
the circumstances to grant the child permission without
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-ukraine-scheme

Page 17 of 20

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Ukraine Scheme - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

such written consent.
UKR 34.2. The written consent must provide contact
details of the parent(s) or legal guardian and confirm
consent is given for both of the following:
(a) the application; and
(b) the applicant’s living and care arrangements in
the UK.
Care requirement for a child applying under the
Ukraine Permission Extension Scheme
UKR 35.1. If the applicant is aged under 18 on the date
of application, there must be suitable arrangements for
the child’s care and accommodation in the UK, which
must comply with relevant UK legislation and
regulations.
Decision on an application under the Ukraine
Permission Extension Scheme
UKR 36.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all the
suitability and eligibility requirements under the Ukraine
Permission Extension Scheme are met, the application
will be granted; otherwise, the application will be
refused.
Period of grant for the Ukraine Permission
Extension Scheme
UKR 37.1. Subject to 37.2. and 37.3., the applicant will
be granted permission to stay for a period of up to:
(a) 18 months, if the applicant has not previously
been granted permission under the Ukraine
Permission Extension Scheme; or
(b) 24 months, if the applicant has previously been
granted permission under the Ukraine Permission
Extension Scheme.
UKR 37.2. If the applicant is a child, they will be granted
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-ukraine-scheme

Page 18 of 20

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Ukraine Scheme - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

permission to stay for a period either:
(a) in line with the applicant’s parent or legal
guardian, if the applicant is granted permission at
the same time as their parent or legal guardian or if
their parent or legal guardian has permission under
Appendix Ukraine Scheme and is in the UK; or
(b) in line with the applicant’s parent or legal
guardian whose permission expires last, if the
applicant is granted permission at the same time as
both of their parents or legal guardians or if both of
their parents or legal guardians hold permission
under Appendix Ukraine Scheme and are in the UK.
UKR 37.3. If the applicant was previously granted
permission under the Ukraine Permission Extension
Scheme for a period which was aligned to their parent
or legal guardian’s permission and is 18 or over at the
date of application, the applicant will be granted
permission for a period in accordance with paragraph
UKR 37.1.(b).
UKR 37.4. Any remaining period of the applicant’s
current permission at the date of grant will be added to
their permission, up to a maximum of 90 days.
Conditions of grant for the Ukraine Permission
Extension Scheme
UKR 38.1. The permission will be granted subject to the
following conditions:
(a) access to public funds permitted; and
(b) work (including self-employment and voluntary
work) permitted; and
(c) study permitted, subject to the Academic
Technology Approval Scheme ATAS) condition in
Appendix ATAS.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-ukraine-scheme

Page 19 of 20

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Ukraine Scheme - Guidance - GOV.UK

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-ukraine-scheme

07/05/2026, 11:54 am

© Crown copyright

Page 20 of 20

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix V: Visitor
Immigration Rules for Visitors
This route is for a person who wants to visit the UK for a
temporary period, (usually for up to 6 months), for
purposes such as tourism, visiting friends or family,
carrying out a business activity, or undertaking a short
course of study.
Each Visitor must meet the requirements of the Visitor
route, even if they are travelling as, for example, a
family group, a tour group or a school party.
A visa national as set out in Appendix Visitor: Visa
National list must obtain entry clearance as a Visitor (a
visit visa) before arrival in the UK.
A non-visa national can normally seek entry on arrival in
the UK.
There are 4 types of Visitor:
Standard Visitor: for those seeking to undertake the

activities set out in Appendix Visitor: Permitted
Activities, for example tourism and visiting family,
usually for up to 6 months. A Standard Visitor may
apply for a visit visa of six months, two, five or 10
years validity, however each stay in the UK must not
exceed the permitted length of stay endorsed on the
visit visa (usually six months).
Marriage/Civil Partnership Visitor: for those seeking to
come to the UK to marry or form a civil partnership, or
give notice of marriage or civil partnership.
DELETED.
Transit Visitor: for those who want to transit the UK on
route to another country outside the Common Travel
Area and who will enter the UK for up to 48 hours by
crossing the UK border unless Appendix Visitor:
Transit Without Visa Scheme applies.
Diplomatic Visa Arrangement (DVA) Visitor: for
individuals holding a valid diplomatic passport who
are visiting the UK, nominated through a Note
Verbale from their sending government. DVA Visitors
may apply for a visit visa for 2 years validity, however
each stay in the UK must not exceed 6 months.
Visitors cannot work in the UK unless this is expressly
allowed under the permitted activities set out in
Appendix Visitor: Permitted Activities.
Further information of how long each Visitor can stay
and what they can and cannot do in the UK is set out at
V 17.2 and Appendix Visitor: Permitted Activities.
The DVA Visitor application process will open on 18
February 2025 for nationals set out at V15A.4 who
intend to travel to the UK on or after 11 March 2025.

Entry requirements for Visitors
V 1.1. A person seeking to come to the UK as a Visitor
must apply for and obtain entry clearance before they
arrive in the UK if they are:
(a) a visa national, unless V 1.3. (b) applies; or
(b) seeking to marry or form a civil partnership, or
give notice of marriage or civil partnership, in the UK

unless they are a “relevant national” as defined in
section 62 of the Immigration Act 2014; or
(c) seeking to come to the UK as a Visitor for more
than 6 months.
V 1.2. Within the period for which the entry clearance is
valid, a Visitor may enter and leave the UK multiple
times, unless the entry clearance is endorsed as single
or dual entry.
V 1.3. A person seeking to come to the UK as a Visitor
may apply for permission to enter on arrival in the UK
where they are:
(a) a non-visa national, unless V 1.1. (b) or (c) apply;
or
(b) a visa national and an exception applies as set
out in Appendix Visitor: Visa National list or
Appendix Visitor: Transit Without Visa Scheme.
V 1.4. A person seeking to enter the UK as a Visitor
must, where required, under Appendix Electronic Travel
Authorisation, obtain an Electronic Travel Authorisation
before travelling to the UK.
V 1.5. A child who holds entry clearance as a Visitor on
arrival in the UK must either:
(a) hold a valid entry clearance that states they are
accompanied and will be travelling with an adult
identified on that entry clearance; or
(b) hold an entry clearance which states they are
unaccompanied; otherwise
the child may be refused entry to the UK, unless they
meet the requirements of V 5.1. and V 5.2.

Validity requirements for entry clearance
or permission to stay as a Visitor
V 2.1. A person applying for entry clearance as a Visitor
must apply online on the gov.uk website on the
specified form “Apply for a UK visit visa” unless they are
applying for entry clearance as a Diplomatic Visa
Arrangement Visitor, in which case they must apply
online on the gov.uk website on the specified form

“Apply for an exempt, diplomatic, official visit vignette or
S2 Healthcare Visitor visa”.
V 2.2. A person applying for permission to stay as a
Visitor must apply online on the gov.uk website on the
specified form “Application to extend stay in the UK:
FLR(IR)”.
V 2.3. An application for entry clearance or permission
to stay as a Visitor must meet all the following
requirements:
(a) any required fee must have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other document which satisfactorily establishes their
identity and nationality.
V.2.3A. An application for entry clearance as a
Diplomatic Visa Arrangement Visitor must meet all the
following requirements:
(a) the applicant must be aged 18 or older on the
date of application; and
(b) the applicant must have a valid diplomatic
passport which satisfactorily establishes the
applicant’s identity and nationality.
V 2.4. An application for entry clearance as a Visitor
must be made while the applicant is outside the UK and
to a post designated to accept such applications.
V 2.5. An application for permission to stay as a Visitor
must be made by a person:
(a) in the UK; and
(b) with permission as a Standard Visitor or
Marriage/Civil Partnership Visitor.
V 2.6. An application which does not meet all the validity
requirements for a Visitor may be rejected as invalid
and not considered.

Suitability requirements for all Visitors

V 3.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under Part
Suitability.
V 3.2. If applying for permission to stay the applicant
must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.

Eligibility requirements for Visitors
V 4.1. The decision maker must be satisfied that the
applicant (unless they are applying for entry clearance
or permission to enter as a Transit Visitor) meets all of
the eligibility requirements in V 4.2. to V 4.6. and that
they meet the specified additional eligibility
requirements where the applicant:
(a) is a child at the date of application, they must
also meet the additional requirements at V 5.1. and
V 5.2; or
(b) is coming to the UK under the Approved
Destination Status Agreement, they must also meet
the requirements at V 6.1; or
(c) is coming to the UK to receive private medical
treatment, they must also meet the additional
requirements at V 7.1. to V 7.3; or
(d) is coming to the UK as an organ donor, they
must also meet the additional requirements at V 8.1.
to V 8.4; or
(e) is coming to the UK to study as a Visitor, they
must also meet the additional requirements at V 9.1.
to V 9.5; or
(f) is an academic seeking a 12-month entry
clearance, they must also meet the additional
requirements at V 10.1; or
(g) is coming to the UK to undertake work related
training, they must also meet the additional
requirements at V 11.1. to V 11.3; or
(h) is coming to the UK to marry or form a civil

partnership, or give notice of intention to marry or
form a civil partnership, they must also meet the
additional requirements at V 12.1. and V 12.2; or
(i) is coming to the UK to undertake permitted paid
engagements, they must also meet the additional
requirements in V 13.1. to V 13.3; or
(j) is applying for permission to stay as a Visitor, they
must also meet the additional requirements at V
15.1. to V 15.4; or
(k) is applying for entry clearance as a Diplomatic
Visa Arrangement visitor, they must also meet the
additional requirements at V15A.1. to V15A.4.

Genuine visitor requirement
V 4.2. The applicant must satisfy the decision maker
that they are a genuine visitor, which means the
applicant:
(a) will leave the UK at the end of their visit; and
(b) will not live in the UK for extended periods
through frequent or successive visits, or make the
UK their main home; and
(c) is genuinely seeking entry or stay for a purpose
that is permitted under the Visitor route as set out in
Appendix Visitor: Permitted Activities and at V 13.3;
and
(d) will not undertake any of the prohibited activities
set out in V 4.4. to V 4.6; and
(e) must have sufficient funds to cover all
reasonable costs in relation to their visit without
working or accessing public funds, including the cost
of the return or onward journey, any costs relating to
their dependants, and the cost of planned activities
such as private medical treatment. The applicant
must show that any funds they rely upon are held in
a financial institution permitted under FIN 2.1 in
Appendix Finance.
V 4.3. In assessing whether an applicant has sufficient
funds under V 4.2.(e), the applicant’s travel,
maintenance and accommodation may be provided by a
third party only if that third party:

(a) has a genuine professional or personal
relationship with the applicant; and
(b) is not, or will not be, in breach of immigration
laws at the time of the decision or the applicant’s
entry to the UK as a Visitor; and
(c) can and will provide support to the applicant for
the intended duration of the applicant’s stay as a
Visitor.

Prohibited activities and payment
requirements for Visitors
V 4.4. The Visitor must not intend to:
(a) work in the UK, which includes:
(i) taking employment in the UK; and
(ii) doing work for an organisation or business in
the UK; and
(iii) establishing or running a business as a selfemployed person; and
(iv) doing a work placement or internship; and
(v) direct selling to the public; and
(vi) providing goods and services,
unless expressly allowed by the permitted activities
in Appendix Visitor: Permitted Activities or Appendix
Visitor: Permit Free Festival List; or
(b) study in the UK, except as permitted by
Appendix Visitor: Permitted Activities (and provided
they meet the relevant additional requirements for
study); or
(c) access medical treatment, other than private
medical treatment or to donate an organ (for either
of these activities they must meet the relevant
additional eligibility requirements); or
(d) get married or form a civil partnership, or give
notice of intention to marry or form a civil
partnership, unless they are applying for entry
clearance as a Marriage/Civil Partnership Visitor or
are a relevant national as defined in section 62 of
the Immigration Act 2014.

V 4.5. Permitted activities must not amount to the Visitor
undertaking employment, or doing work which amounts
to them filling a role or providing short-term cover for a
role within a UK based organisation and where the
Visitor is already paid and employed outside of the UK
they must remain so.
V 4.6. The Visitor must not receive payment from a UK
source for any activities undertaken in the UK, except
for the following:
(a) reasonable expenses to cover the cost of their
travel and subsistence, including fees for directors
attending board-level meetings; or
(b) international drivers or Seafarers undertaking
activities permitted under PA 9.2 to PA 9.4; or
(c) prize money; or
(d) billing a UK client for their time in the UK, where
the Visitor’s overseas employer is contracted to
provide services to a UK company, and the majority
of the contract work is carried out overseas
(payment must be lower than the amount of the
Visitor’s salary); or
(e) multi-national companies who, for administrative
reasons, handle payment of their employees’
salaries from the UK; or
(f) paid performances at a permit free festival as
listed in Appendix Visitor: Permit Free Festival List,
where the Visitor is an artist, entertainer or musician;
or
(g) the permitted paid engagements listed in V 13.3,
providing the requirements in V 13.1 and V 13.2 are
met.

Additional eligibility requirements for
children
V 5.1. Adequate arrangements must have been made
for a child’s travel to, reception and care in the UK.
V 5.2. If the child is not travelling with a parent or legal
guardian, based in their home country or country of
ordinary residence, who is responsible for their care,
that parent or legal guardian must consent to the child’s

travel to, reception and care in the UK and, where
requested, this consent must be given in writing.

Additional eligibility requirement for
Visitors under the Approved Destination
Status Agreement
V 6.1. A person applying for entry clearance as a Visitor
under the Approved Destination Status Agreement
must:
(a) be a national of the People’s Republic of China;
and
(b) intend to enter, leave and travel within the UK as
a member of a tourist group under the Approved
Destination Status Agreement.

Additional eligibility requirements for
Visitors coming to the UK to receive
private medical treatment
V 7.1. If the applicant is suffering from a communicable
disease they must have satisfied the medical inspector
that they are not a danger to public health.
V 7.2. The applicant must have arranged their private
medical treatment before they travel to the UK, and
must provide either:
(a) a letter from their doctor or consultant in the UK
detailing:
(i) the medical condition requiring consultation or
treatment; and
(ii) the estimated costs and likely duration of any
treatment, which must be of a finite duration; and
(iii) where the consultation or treatment will take
place; or
(b) if the applicant intends to receive NHS treatment
under a reciprocal healthcare arrangement between the
UK and another country, an authorisation form issued
by the government of that country.
V 7.3. If the applicant is applying for an 11-month entry

clearance for the purposes of private medical treatment
they must also:
(a) provide either:
(i) evidence from their doctor or consultant in the
UK that the proposed treatment is likely to
exceed 6 months, but not more than 11 months;
or
(ii) if the applicant intends to receive NHS
treatment under a reciprocal healthcare
arrangement between the UK and another
country, an authorisation form issued by the
government of that country which clearly states
that the proposed treatment is likely to exceed 6
months, but not more than 11 months; and
(b) if Appendix Tuberculosis applies, provide a valid
medical certificate, confirming that they have
undergone screening for active pulmonary
tuberculosis and that this tuberculosis is not present
in them.

Additional eligibility requirements for
Visitors coming to the UK to donate an
organ
V 8.1. The applicant must satisfy the decision maker
that they genuinely intend to donate an organ to, or be
assessed as a potential organ donor for, an identified
recipient in the UK with whom they have a genetic or
close personal relationship.
V 8.2. The applicant must provide written confirmation
of medical tests to show that they are a donor match to
the identified recipient, or that they are undergoing
further tests to be assessed as a potential donor to the
identified recipient.
V 8.3. The applicant must provide a letter, dated no
more than 3 months before the applicant’s intended
date of arrival in the UK from either:
(a) the lead nurse or coordinator of the UK NHS
Trust’s Living Donor Kidney Transplant team; or
(b) a UK registered medical practitioner who holds
an NHS consultant post or who appears in the

Specialist Register of the General Medical Council;
which confirms that the applicant meets the
requirements in V 8.1. and V 8.2. and confirms when
and where the planned organ transplant or medical
tests will take place.
V 8.4. The applicant must be able to show, if required to
do so, that the identified recipient is lawfully present in
the UK, or will be at the time of the planned organ
transplant.

Additional eligibility requirements for
Visitors coming to the UK to study for
up to six months
V 9.1. Where the applicant is seeking to come to the UK
to study, they must have been accepted onto a course
of study that is to be provided by an Accredited
Institution that is not a State Funded School or
Academy.
V 9.2. The course of study referred to in V 9.1. must last
no longer than six months unless the course is being
undertaken from outside the UK as a Distance Learning
Course.
V 9.3. Where the applicant is seeking to come to the UK
for up to six months to undertake electives relevant to a
course of study abroad, they must:
(a) be aged 16 or over; and
(b) be enrolled on a course of study abroad
equivalent to at least degree level study in the UK;
and
(c) be studying medicine, veterinary medicine and
science, nursing, midwifery, or dentistry as their
principal course of study; and
(d) have been accepted by a UK Higher Education
Provider to undertake electives relevant to their
course of study provided these are unpaid and
involve no treatment of patients; and
(e) provide written confirmation from the UK Higher
Education Provider.

V 9.4. Where the applicant is seeking to come to the UK
to undertake research or be taught about research
(research tuition) for up to six months:
(a) they must be aged 16 or over; and
(b) they must be enrolled on a course of study
abroad equivalent to at least degree level study in
the UK; and
(c) they must have been accepted by a UK Higher
Education Provider to undertake research or be
taught about research (research tuition); and
(d) the overseas course provider must confirm that
the research or research tuition is part of or relevant
to the course of study that they are enrolled on
overseas; and
(e) this must not amount to the Visitor being
employed at the UK institution.
V 9.5. The research or research tuition referred to in V
9.4. may be undertaken at a UK research institute,
providing a formal partnership exists between the
research institute and the UK Higher Education Provider
for this purpose.

Additional eligibility requirements for
academics seeking to come to the UK
for more than 6 months
V 10.1. An academic applying for a 12-month entry
clearance must:
(a) intend to undertake one (or more) of the
following activities for up to 12 months:
(i) take part in formal exchange arrangements
with UK counterparts (including doctors); or
(ii) carry out research for their own purposes, if
they are on sabbatical leave from their home
institution; or
(iii) if they are an eminent senior doctor or
dentist, take part in research, teaching or clinical
practice, provided this does not amount to filling
a permanent teaching post;
and

(b) be highly qualified within their own field of
expertise; and
(c) currently be working in that field at an academic
institution or institution of higher education overseas;
and
(d) if Appendix Tuberculosis applies, provide a valid
medical certificate confirming that they have
undergone screening for active pulmonary
tuberculosis and that this tuberculosis is not present
in them.

Additional eligibility requirements for
Visitors coming to the UK for work
related training
V 11.1. Where the applicant is seeking to come to the
UK to undertake a clinical attachment or dental observer
post as an overseas graduate from a medical, dental or
nursing school, they must provide written confirmation
of their offer to take up this post and confirm they have
not previously undertaken this activity in the UK.
V 11.2. Where the applicant is seeking to come to the
UK to take the Professional and Linguistic Assessment
Board test, they must provide written confirmation of this
from the General Medical Council.
V 11.3. Where the applicant is seeking to come to the
UK to take the Objective Structured Clinical
Examinations for overseas, they must provide written
confirmation of this from the Nursing and Midwifery
Council.

Additional eligibility requirement for
Visitors coming to the UK for purpose of
marriage or civil partnership
V 12.1. The applicant must be aged 18 or over on the
date of application.
V 12.2. The applicant must, within the period for which
they are seeking permission as a Visitor:
(a) intend to give notice of marriage or civil

partnership in the UK; or
(b) intend to marry or form a civil partnership in the
UK;
which is not a sham marriage or civil partnership.

Additional eligibility requirement for
Visitors coming to the UK for Permitted
Paid Engagements
V 13.1. Where the applicant is seeking to come to the
UK to undertake a permitted paid engagement, they
must be aged 18 or over when they enter the UK.
V 13.2. The applicant must intend to do one (or more) of
the permitted paid engagements set out in V 13.3.
which must be:
(a) arranged before the applicant travels to the UK;
and
(b) declared as part of the application for entry
clearance or , if asked, declared when seeking
permission to enter the UK; and
(c) evidenced by a formal invitation, as required by V
13.3; and
(d) relate to the applicant’s area of expertise and
occupation overseas.
V 13.3. The following are permitted paid engagements:
(a) an academic who is highly qualified within their
field of expertise, coming to examine students
and/or participate in or chair selection panels, and
have been invited by a UK higher education
institution, or a UK-based research or arts
organisation as part of that institution or
organisation’s quality assurance processes; and
(b) an expert coming to give lectures in their subject
area, where they have been invited by a higher
education institution, or a UK-based research or arts
organisation, and this does not amount to filling a
teaching position for the host organisation; and
(c) an overseas designated pilot examiner coming to
assess UK-based pilots to ensure they meet the

national aviation regulatory requirements of other
countries, where they have been invited by an
approved training organisation based in the UK that
is regulated by the UK Civil Aviation Authority for
that purpose; and
(d) a qualified lawyer coming to provide advocacy
for a court or tribunal hearing, arbitration or other
form of dispute resolution for legal proceedings
within the UK, where they have been invited by a
client; and
(e) a professional artist, entertainer, or musician
coming to carry out an activity directly relating to
their profession, where they have been invited by a
creative (arts or entertainment) organisation, agent
or broadcaster based in the UK; and
(f) a Professional Sportsperson coming to carry out
an activity directly relating to their profession, where
they have been invited by a sports organisation,
agent, or broadcaster based in the UK; and
(g) a speaker coming to the UK to give a one-off or
short series of talks and speeches, where they have
been invited to a conference or other event.

Eligibility requirement for Visitors
coming to the UK to transit
V 14.1. A visa national must hold entry clearance as a
Standard Visitor, Marriage/Civil Partnership Visitor or
Transit Visitor, unless they meet the requirements for
admission under Appendix Visitor: Transit Without Visa
Scheme, in which case they may apply for permission to
enter on arrival in the UK.
V 14.2. An applicant applying for entry clearance or
permission to enter as a Transit Visitor must satisfy the
decision maker that they:
(a) are genuinely in transit to another country
outside the Common Travel Area, meaning the main
purpose of their visit is to transit the UK (passing
through immigration control) and that the applicant is
taking a reasonable transit route; and
(b) will not access public funds or medical treatment,
work or study in the UK; and

(c) genuinely intend and are able to leave the UK
within 48 hours after their arrival; and
(d) are assured entry to their country of destination
and any other countries they are transiting on their
way there.

Additional eligibility requirements for
permission to stay as a Visitor
V 15.1. Where the applicant is applying for permission
to stay as a Visitor for the purpose of receiving private
medical treatment they must also:
(a) satisfy the decision maker that the costs of any
medical treatment already received have been met;
and
(b) provide either:
(i) a letter from a registered medical practitioner,
at a private practice or NHS hospital, who holds
an NHS consultant post or who appears in the
Specialist Register of the General Medical
Council, detailing the medical condition requiring
further treatment; or
(ii) if the applicant intends to continue to receive
NHS treatment under a reciprocal healthcare
arrangement between the UK and another
country, an authorisation form issued by the
government of that country which authorises
further treatment.
V 15.2. Where the applicant applying for permission to
stay is an academic (or the accompanying partner or
child of such an academic) they must:
(a) continue to intend to:
(i) take part in formal exchange arrangements
with UK counterparts (including doctors); or
(ii) carry out research for their own purposes, if
they are on sabbatical leave from their home
institution; or
(iii) if they are an eminent senior doctor or
dentist, take part in research, teaching or clinical
practice, provided this does not amount to filling
a permanent teaching post; and

(b) be highly qualified within their own field of
expertise; and
(c) have been working in that field at an academic
institution or institution of higher education overseas
prior to their arrival in the UK.
V 15.3. Where the applicant is applying for permission
to stay as a Visitor to resit the Professional and
Linguistic Assessment Board Test, they must provide
written confirmation of this from the General Medical
Council.
V 15.4. Where the applicant is applying for permission
to stay as a Visitor and they are an overseas graduate
of a medical, dental or nursing school intending to
undertake an unpaid clinical attachment or dental
observer post, they must have been successful in the
Professional and Linguistic Assessment Board test.

Eligibility requirement for entry
clearance as a Diplomatic Visa
Arrangement Visitor:
V 15A.1. The decision maker must be satisfied that the
Diplomatic Visa Arrangement Visitor’s application is
supported by a Note Verbale issued by the government
of their nationality.
V 15A.2. The Note Verbale must be issued by the
government of the applicant’s country of nationality and
include:
(a) the applicant’s name, date of birth and passport
number; and
(b) confirmation that the application is supported by
the government of their nationality.
V 15A.3. The Note Verbale must have been issued on
or prior to the application date and the government of
their nationality must not have withdrawn the Note
Verbale or support for the application by issuing a new
Note Verbale.
V 15A.4. The applicant must travel on or after 11 March
2025 and be:

(a) national of the People’s Republic of China who
holds a diplomatic passport issued by the People’s
Republic of China; or
(b) a national of Indonesia who holds a diplomatic
passport issued by Indonesia; or
(c) a national of South Africa who holds a diplomatic
passport issued by South Africa; or
(d) a national of Turkey who holds a diplomatic
passport issued by Turkey; or
(e) national of Vietnam who holds a diplomatic
passport issued by Vietnam.

Decision
V 16.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all the
suitability requirements are met, and that the relevant
eligibility requirements for a Visitor are met, the
application will be granted, otherwise the application will
be refused.

Period and conditions of grant for
Visitors
V 17.1. The grant will be subject to all the following
conditions:
(a) no access to public funds; and
(b) no work (which does not prohibit the permitted
activities in Appendix Visitor: Permitted Activities or
Appendix Visitor: Permit Free Festival List; and
(c) no study except where permitted by Appendix
Visitor: Permitted Activities at PA 2. and PA 17.
(d) study or research as part of a permitted activity is
subject to the ATAS condition in Appendix ATAS.
V 17.2. Entry clearance and permission to enter as a
Visitor will be granted for the periods set out in the
following table:
Visitor type

Maximum initial length of stay in
the UK

(a)

Standard
Visitor

up to 6 months except:
(i) a Visitor who is coming to the
UK for private medical treatment
may be granted entry clearance for
up to 11 months;
(ii) an academic (or the
accompanying partner or child of
such an academic), who is
employed by an overseas
institution and is carrying out the
specific permitted activities at V
10.1 (a), may be granted entry
clearance for up to 12 months;
(iii) a Visitor under the Approved
Destination Status Agreement may
be granted entry clearance for up
to 30 days.

(b)

Marriage /
Civil
Partnership
Visitor

up to 6 months

(c)

Transit
Visitor

up to 48 hours, except for
permission to enter as a Transit
Visitor under the Transit Without
Visa Scheme which may be
granted until 23:59 hours on the
next day after the day the applicant
arrived in the UK.

(d)

Diplomatic
Visa
Arrangement
Visitor

up to 6 months.

V 17.3. Permission to stay will be granted for the
following periods:
(a) a Standard Visitor or a Marriage/Civil Partnership
Visitor, who was granted permission for less than 6
months may be granted permission to stay for a
period which results in the total period they can
remain in the UK (including both the original grant
and the extension) not exceeding 6 months; and
(b) a Standard Visitor who is in the UK for private

medical treatment may be granted permission to
stay as a Visitor for a further 6 months, provided the
purpose is for private medical treatment; and
(c) a Standard Visitor who is in the UK to undertake
the activities in V 10.1 (a), or the accompanying
partner or child of such a Standard Visitor, may be
granted permission to stay for a period which results
in the total period they can remain in the UK
(including both the original grant and the extension)
not exceeding 12 months; and
(d) a Standard Visitor may be granted permission to
stay as a Visitor for up to 6 months in order to resit
the Professional and Linguistic Assessment Board
Test; and
(e) a Standard Visitor who is successful in the
Professional and Linguistic Assessment Board Test
may be granted permission to stay as a Visitor to
undertake the activities in PA 10.1. (a) for a period
which results in the total period they can remain in
the UK (including both the original grant and the
extension) not exceeding 18 months.

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

© Crown copyright

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Victim of Domestic Abuse - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:01 pm

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix Victim of
Domestic Abuse
Immigration Rules Appendix Victim of
Domestic Abuse
This route allows settlement where a person has, or was
last granted, permission as a partner on a specified
route and the relationship has permanently broken down
due to domestic abuse.
The applicant must be in the UK, unless the applicant is
overseas because they have been abandoned
overseas.
Dependent children can also apply on this route.
An alternative route may be available for relevant family
members under Appendix EU who are victims of
domestic abuse.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-victim-of-domestic-abuse

Page 1 of 6

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Victim of Domestic Abuse - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:01 pm

Validity requirements for the Victim of
Domestic Abuse route
VDA 1.1. A person applying from outside the UK on the
Victim of Domestic Abuse route must apply for entry
clearance online on the gov.uk website on the specified
form: “Return to the UK”.
VDA 1.2. A person applying in the UK on the Victim of
Domestic Abuse route must apply online on the gov.uk
website on one of the specified forms as follows:
(a) for the Victim of Domestic Abuse, and a child
applying on the Victim of Domestic Abuse route at
the same time as their parent and who is included in
their parent’s application, form SET (DV); or
(b) for a child of a Victim of Domestic Abuse who is
not applying at the same time as their parent, form
SET (DV).
VDA 1.3. An application on the Victim of Domestic
Abuse route must meet all of the following validity
requirements:
(a) any fee must have been paid (unless the
applicant has been granted a fee waiver); and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other document which satisfactorily establishes their
identity and nationality.
VDA 1.4. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for the Victim of Domestic Abuse
route may be rejected as invalid and not considered.

Suitability requirements for the Victim of
Domestic Abuse route
VDA 2.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability, but SUI 11.4(a) does not apply.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-victim-of-domestic-abuse

Page 2 of 6

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Victim of Domestic Abuse - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:01 pm

Eligibility requirements for Victim of
Domestic Abuse Route
Entry requirements for the Victim of Domestic
Abuse route
VDA 3.1 Where a person is outside the UK they must
apply for and obtain entry clearance on the Victim of
Domestic Abuse route before they arrive in the UK.
VDA 3.2. Where a person is applying for entry clearance
on the Victim of Domestic Abuse route they must, if
Appendix Tuberculosis applies, provide a valid medical
certificate confirming that they have undergone
screening for active pulmonary tuberculosis and that this
tuberculosis is not present in them.

Relationship requirements for a Victim
of Domestic Abuse
VDA 4.1. The applicant must have, or have last been
granted, permission as one of the following:
(a) a partner under Appendix FM (except for
permission as a fiancé(e) or proposed civil partner)
of a person who is a British citizen, settled in the UK
or an EEA national in the UK with limited leave to
enter or remain granted under paragraph EU3 of
Appendix EU on the basis of meeting condition 1 in
paragraph EU14 of Appendix EU; or
(aa) a spouse, civil partner or durable partner under
Appendix EU with limited leave to enter or remain as
a family member of a relevant EEA citizen (or of a
qualifying British citizen), as a joining family member
of a relevant sponsor or as a family member who
has retained the right of residence, granted under
paragraph EU3 or EU3A of that Appendix; or
(b) a partner under Appendix FM, Part 8, Part 11, or
Appendix Family Reunion (Protection) of a person
with permission as a refugee; or
(c) a spouse, civil partner, unmarried or same sex
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-victim-of-domestic-abuse

Page 3 of 6

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Victim of Domestic Abuse - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:01 pm

partner under paragraph 282(a), 282(c), 285,
295B(a), 295B(c) or 295E of Part 8 of a person
present and settled in the UK; or
(d) a victim of domestic abuse under Appendix FM
or Part 8; or
(e) a partner under Appendix Armed Forces or Part
7 (except for permission as a fiancé(e) or proposed
civil partner), of any of the below:
(i) a person who is a British citizen; or
(ii) a foreign and commonwealth citizen with at
least 4 years’ reckonable service in HM Forces
at the date of application under this paragraph
or;
(iii) a member of HM Armed forces who has
applied for or been granted permission or
settlement as a foreign and commonwealth
citizen discharged from HM Armed Forces; or
(f) leave outside the rules granted under the Migrant
Victims of Domestic Abuse Concession (formerly the
Destitution Domestic Violence Concession (DDVC)),
and before that were last granted permission under
one of the categories defined in VDA 4.1(a) to (e).
VDA 4.2. The relationship between the applicant and
their partner must have broken down permanently as a
result of domestic abuse.
VDA 4.3. If the applicant is applying from outside the
UK, they must have been abandoned outside the UK.

Requirements for a child of a Victim of
Domestic Abuse
VDA 5.1. The applicant must meet the following
requirements for a dependent child in Appendix
Children:
(a) relationship requirement for settlement; and
(b) care requirement; and
(c) age and independent life requirement.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-victim-of-domestic-abuse

Page 4 of 6

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Victim of Domestic Abuse - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:01 pm

English language requirements for a
child of a Victim of Domestic Abuse
VDA 6.1. DELETED.
VDA 6.2. DELETED.

Knowledge of life in the UK
requirements for a child of a Victim of
Domestic Abuse
VDA 7.1. DELETED.

Maintenance and Accommodation
requirements for a child of a Victim of
Domestic Abuse
VDA 8.1 DELETED.
VDA 8.2 DELETED.

Decision on an application for
settlement on the Victim of Domestic
Abuse route
VDA 9.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all the
suitability and eligibility requirements for entry clearance
or settlement on the Victim of Domestic Abuse route are
met, the application will be granted, otherwise the
application will be refused.
VDA 9.2. If the application is refused, the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.

Period and conditions of grant on the
Victim of Domestic Abuse route
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-victim-of-domestic-abuse

Page 5 of 6

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Victim of Domestic Abuse - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 12:01 pm

VDA 10.1. Where the applicant is outside the UK and
the requirements for entry clearance are met, they will
be granted entry clearance for settlement.
VDA 10.2. Where the applicant is in the UK and the
requirements for settlement are met, they will be
granted settlement.

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-victim-of-domestic-abuse

© Crown copyright

Page 6 of 6

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix VIP Delegate Visa - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:32 am

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix VIP Delegate Visa
This route is for a person accompanying a
Head of State or Government Minister on
an official visit to the UK for a temporary
period (less than 1 month).
This route is not designed for people who are exempt
from immigration control or other official visits to the UK.
There is a cap of 20 for Head of States delegations and
10 for Ministerial delegations per official visit. A VIP
Delegate Visa will be issued for the duration of their
official visit in the UK plus three days before and after
the official visit takes place for travelling purposes. The
official visit must not exceed the maximum permitted
length of stay of one month.
Those visa nationals travelling as a VIP Delegate must
obtain entry clearance as a VIP Delegate before arrival
in the UK.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-vip-delegate-visa

Page 1 of 5

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix VIP Delegate Visa - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:32 am

in the UK.
VIP Delegate visa is not a route to settlement.
Dependants are not permitted on this route.

Entry clearance as a VIP Delegate
Entry requirements for a VIP Delegate
DEL 1.1. A person seeking to come to the UK as a VIP
Delegate must apply for and obtain entry clearance
before they arrive in the UK.
Validity requirements for entry clearance as a VIP
Delegate
DEL 2.1. A person applying for entry clearance as a VIP
Delegate must apply online on the gov.uk website on
the specified form: “A exempt, diplomatic, official visit
vignette or S2 Healthcare Visitor visa”
(https://www.gov.uk/exempt-vignette).
DEL 2.2. An application for entry clearance as a VIP
Delegate must satisfy all the following requirements:
(a) the applicant must be named in a Note Verbale
provided by their government, confirming that they
are part of the official delegation accompanying their
Head of State or serving government Minister; and
(b) the applicant must have provided a valid
passport which satisfactorily establishes their
identity and nationality; and
(c) the applicant must provide a facial image in
accordance with the application process, and which
complies with the rules for digital photos on
“https://www.gov.uk/photos-for-passports”
(https://www.gov.uk/photos-for-passports); and
(d) the applicant must be aged 18 or older on the
date of application.
DEL 2.3. An application for entry clearance as a VIP
Delegate must be made while the applicant is outside
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-vip-delegate-visa

Page 2 of 5

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix VIP Delegate Visa - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:32 am

Delegate must be made while the applicant is outside
the UK and to a Visa Application Centre (VAC)
designated to accept such applications.
DEL 2.4. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for a VIP Delegate may be
rejected as invalid and not considered.
Suitability requirements for a VIP Delegate
DEL 3.1. The decision maker must be satisfied that the
applicant should not be refused under Part Suitability.
Eligibility requirements for a VIP Delegate
DEL 4.1. The decision maker must be satisfied that the
applicant meets the following eligibility requirements:
(a) the applicant is visiting the UK with the intention
and sole purpose of accompanying their Head of
State or serving government Minister on official
business of their government; and
(b) the applicant is a government official; and
(c) the applicant’s intended dates of travel are
consistent with the dates of the official visit; and
(d) the applicant is aged 18 or older.
DEL 4.2. The decision maker must be satisfied that the
Note Verbale referred to in DEL 2.2(a) meets all the
eligibility requirements in DEL 4.3. to DEL 4.6.
DEL 4.3. The Note Verbale must:
(a) be issued by the government of the country
sending the delegation; and
(b) not contain a list of names that exceeds the
allocated cap per visit.
DEL 4.4. The cap per visit referred to in DEL 4.3(b) is:
(a) for delegations accompanying a head of state –
20; and
(b) for delegations accompanying a serving

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-vip-delegate-visa

Page 3 of 5

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix VIP Delegate Visa - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:32 am

(b) for delegations accompanying a serving
government minister – 10.
DEL 4.5. The Note Verbale must also contain the
following information:
(a) the applicant’s name, date of birth and passport
number; and
(b) confirmation of the title and purpose of the official
visit and the dates that the official visit will take
place; and
(c) confirmation that the application is supported by
the country sending the delegation; and
(d) confirmation that the applicant has sufficient
funds to cover all reasonable costs in relation to their
visit without unauthorised working or accessing
public funds.
DEL 4.6. The Note Verbale must have been issued prior
to the application date and must not have been
withdrawn after the issue date.
Decision on an application as a VIP Delegate
DEL 5.1. If the decision maker is satisfied the suitability
and eligibility requirements for entry clearance as a VIP
Delegate are met, the application will be granted,
otherwise the application will be refused.
Period of grant for a VIP Delegate
DEL 6.1. Entry clearance as a VIP Delegate will be
granted for the period beginning three days before the
commencement of the official visit to the UK and ending
three days after the end of the official visit to the UK and
must not exceed in any case the maximum period of
one month.
Conditions of grant for a VIP Delegate
DEL 7.1. The grant will be subject to all the following
conditions:
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-vip-delegate-visa

Page 4 of 5

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix VIP Delegate Visa - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:32 am

conditions:
(a) no access to public funds; and
(b) no work for purposes other than directly related
to the purpose of their official visit as stated in the
Note Verbale; and
(c) no study.

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-vip-delegate-visa

© Crown copyright

Page 5 of 5

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Visitor: Permit Free Festival List - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:32 am

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix Visitor: Permit
Free Festival List
List of Permit Free Festivals
PFF1. An artist, entertainer or musician visiting the UK
to perform at one or more of the following permit free
festivals may receive payment to do so:
(a) Africa Oye
(b) Aldeburgh Festival
(c) All Points East
(d) American Express presents BST Hyde Park
(e) Barbican Festivals – Live from the Barbican
(f) Belfast International Arts Festival
(g) Belsonic
(h) Big Church Festival
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-visitor-permit-free-festival-list

Page 1 of 4

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Visitor: Permit Free Festival List - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:32 am

(i) Birmingham Hippodrome Festivals & Sites
(j) Birmingham Jazz & Blues Festival
(k) Boomtown Festival
(l) Bradford Literature Festival
(m) Breakin’ Convention
(n) Brighton Festival
(o) Brighton Fringe
(p) Cambridge Folk Festival
(q) Camden Fringe
(r) Camp Bestival Dorset
(s) Celtic Connections
(t) Cheltenham Festivals (Jazz, Science, Music &
Literature Festivals)
(u) Cornwall International Male Choral Festival
(v) Creamfields
(w) C2C: Country to Country Festival
(x) Dance Umbrella
(y) Download
(z) Durham BRASS Festival
(aa) Edinburgh Festival Fringe
(bb) Edinburgh International Book Festival
(cc) Edinburgh International Children’s Festival
(dd) Edinburgh International Festival
(ee) Edinburgh International Jazz and Blues Festival
(ff) Emerge Belfast
(gg) End of the Road Festival
(hh) Fierce Festival Ltd
(ii) Flamenco Festival at Sadler’s Wells Theatre
(jj) Freedom Festival Arts Trust
(kk) Garsington Opera
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-visitor-permit-free-festival-list

Page 2 of 4

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Visitor: Permit Free Festival List - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:32 am

(ll) Glasgow International Jazz Festival
(mm) Global Streets
(nn) Glyndebourne
(oo) Greenbelt
(pp) Greenwich and Docklands International Festival
(qq) Green Man
(rr) Harrogate International Festivals
(ss) Hay Festival Foundation Ltd
(tt) Huddersfield Contemporary Music Festival
(uu) Hyde Park Winter Wonderland
(vv) Isle of Wight Festival
(ww) Latitude
(xx) Leeds Festival
(yy) Llangollen International Musical Eisteddfod
(zz) Love Supreme
(aaa) Meltdown (Southbank Centre)
(bbb) Norfolk & Norwich Festival
(ccc) Out There Festival
(ddd) Parklife
(eee) Reading Festival
(fff) Shubbak
(ggg) Sonica
(hhh) Southbank Centre Festivals & Series
(iii) Stockton International Riverside Festival (SIRF)
(jjj) Summer at Snape
(kkk) Terminal
(lll) The EFG London Jazz Festival
(mmm) The Great Escape Festival
(nnn) The Royal Edinburgh Military Tattoo
(ooo) The Warehouse Project
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-visitor-permit-free-festival-list

Page 3 of 4

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Visitor: Permit Free Festival List - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:32 am

(ppp) We Out Here
(qqq) Wilderness
(rrr) Wireless Festival
(sss) WOMAD
(ttt) WWE Live

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-visitor-permit-free-festival-list

© Crown copyright

Page 4 of 4

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix Visitor:
Permitted Activities
Permitted Activities for Visitors
PA 1. Visitors are permitted to undertake the following
activities:
Visitor type

Visitors of this type can

(a)

Standard
Visitor

do all permitted activities in
Appendix Visitor: Permitted
Activities, except Visitors under
the Approved Destination Status
Agreement may only do the
activities in PA 2(a).

(b)

Marriage/Civil
Partnership
Visitor

marry or form a civil partnership,
or give notice of marriage or civil
partnership, and do all permitted
activities in Appendix Visitor:
Permitted Activities, other than
study as described in PA 17 and

the permitted paid engagements in
PA 19.
(c)

Transit Visitor

transit the UK as described in PA
18.

(d)

Diplomatic
Visa
Arrangement
Visitor

do all the permitted activities in
Appendix Visitor: Permitted
Activities, except PA 10.1, PA 16.1,
PA 16.2, PA 17.

Tourism and Leisure
PA 2. A Visitor may:
(a) visit friends and family and / or come to the UK
for a holiday; and
(b) take part in educational exchanges or visits with
a state funded school or academy or independent
school; and
(c) attend recreational courses (not English
Language training) for a maximum of 30 days.

Volunteering
PA 3. A Visitor may undertake volunteering provided it
lasts no more than 30 days in total and is for a charity
that is registered with either the Charity Commission for
England and Wales; the Charity Commission for
Northern Ireland; or the Office of the Scottish Charity
Regulator.

General Business Activities
PA 4. A Visitor may:
(a) attend meetings, conferences, seminars,
interviews; and
(b) give a one-off or short series of talks and
speeches provided these are not organised as
commercial events and will not make a profit for the
organiser; and
(c) negotiate and sign deals and contracts; and

(d) attend trade fairs, for promotional work only,
provided the Visitor is not directly selling; and
(e) carry out site visits and inspections; and
(f) gather information for their employment overseas;
and
(g) be briefed on the requirements of a UK based
customer, provided any work for the customer is
done outside of the UK; and
(h) undertake activities relating to their employment
overseas remotely from within the UK, providing this
is not the primary purpose of their visit.

Intra-corporate Activities
PA 5.1. An employee of an overseas based company
may:
(a) advise and consult; and
(b) trouble-shoot; and
(c) provide training; and
(d) share skills and knowledge;
on a specific internal project with UK employees of the
same corporate group.
PA 5.2. An employee of an overseas based company
may also undertake the activities in PA 5.1. directly with
clients, providing:
(a) the employee’s movement is in an intracorporate setting and any client facing activity is
incidental to their employment abroad; and
(b) these activities are required for the delivery of a
project or service by the UK branch of the Visitor’s
employer overseas, and are not part of a project or
service that is being delivered directly to the UK
client by the Visitor’s employer overseas.
PA 6. An internal auditor may carry out regulatory or
financial audits at a UK branch of the same group of
companies as the Visitor’s employer overseas.

Manufacture and supply of goods to the
UK
PA 7. An employee of an overseas company may install,
dismantle, repair, service or advise on machinery,
equipment, computer software or hardware (or train UK
based workers to provide these services) where there is
a contract of purchase, supply or lease with a UK
company or organisation and either:
(a) the overseas company is the manufacturer or
supplier; or
(b) the overseas company is part of a contractual
arrangement for after sales services agreed at the
time of the sale or lease, including in a warranty or
other service contract incidental to the sale or lease.

Clients of UK export companies
PA 8. A client of a UK export company may be
seconded to the UK company in order to oversee the
requirements for goods and services that are being
provided under contract by the UK company or its
subsidiary company, provided the two companies are
not part of the same group.

Overseas roles requiring specific
activities in the UK
PA 9.1. Individuals employed outside the UK may visit
the UK to take part in the following activities in relation
to their employment overseas:
(a) a translator and/or interpreter may translate
and/or interpret in the UK as an employee of an
enterprise located overseas; or
(b) personal assistants and bodyguards may support
an overseas business person in carrying out
permitted activities, provided they will attend the
same event(s) as the business person and are
employed by them outside the UK. They must not be
providing personal care or domestic work for the
business person; or

(c) a tour group courier, contracted to a company
with its headquarters outside the UK, who is
entering and departing the UK with a tour group
organised by their company; or
(d) a journalist, correspondent, producer or
cameraman gathering information for an overseas
publication, programme or film; or
(e) archaeologists taking part in a one-off
archaeological excavation; or
(f) a professor from an overseas academic institution
accompanying students to the UK as part of a study
abroad programme, may provide a small amount of
teaching to the students at the host organisation
providing this does not amount to filling a permanent
teaching role for that institution; or
(g) market researchers and analysts may conduct
market research or analysis for an enterprise
located outside the UK; or
(h) between 01 March and 31 October a pilot or
cabin crew member may work in the UK temporarily
under the terms of a Civil Aviation Authority
approved Wet Lease Agreement, providing they
remain employed and renumerated overseas.
PA 9.2. Drivers on a genuine international route
between the UK and a country outside the UK may:
(a) deliver or collect goods or passengers from a
country outside the UK to the UK; and
(b) undertake cabotage operations.
PA 9.3. Drivers under PA 9.2. must be employed or
contracted to an operator registered in a country outside
the UK or be a self-employed operator and driver based
outside the UK and the operator must hold an
International Operators Licence or be operating on an
own account basis.
PA 9.4. A Seafarer working on a vessel on a genuine
international route between a port in the UK and a port
outside the UK may:
(a) deliver or collect goods or passengers from a
port outside the UK to bring to the UK port; and
(b) call at up to a further 10 UK ports within a 60-day

time period to deliver or collect goods or passengers
before travelling to a port outside the UK.

Work-related training
PA 10.1. Overseas graduates from medical, dental or
nursing schools may:
(a) undertake clinical attachments or dental observer
posts provided these are unpaid and involve no
treatment of patients, where the additional
requirements of Appendix V: Visitor at V 11.1. are
also met; and
(b) take the following test/examination in the UK:
(i) the Professional and Linguistic Assessment
Board test, where the additional requirements of
Appendix V: Visitor at V 11.2. are also met; or
(ii) the Objective Structured Clinical
Examinations for overseas, where the additional
requirements of Appendix V: Visitor at V 11.3.
are also met.
PA 10.2. Employees of an overseas company or
organisation may receive training from a UK based
company or organisation in work practices and
techniques which are required for the Visitor’s
employment overseas and not available in their home
country.
PA 10.3. An employee of an overseas based training
company may deliver a short series of training to
employees of a UK based company, where the trainer is
employed by an overseas business contracted to deliver
global training to the international corporate group to
which the UK based company belongs.

Science and academia
PA 11.1. Academics, scientists, and researchers may:
(a) take part in formal exchange arrangements with
UK counterparts (including doctors); and
(b) collaborate, gather information and facts, or
conduct research, either for a specific project which
directly relates to their employment overseas, or

independently; and
(c) if they are an eminent senior doctor or dentist,
take part in research, teaching or clinical practice,
provided this does not amount to filling a permanent
teaching post.
PA 11.2. DELETED.

Legal
PA 12.1. An expert witness may visit the UK to give
evidence in a UK court; other witnesses may attend a
court hearing in the UK if summoned in person by a UK
court.
PA 12.2.An overseas lawyer may provide legal services
including:
(a) advice; and
(b) appearing in arbitrations; and
(c) acting as an arbitrator or mediator; and
(d) acting as an expert witness; and
(e) appearing in court in jurisdictions which allow
short term call or where qualified in that jurisdiction;
and
(f) conferences, teaching; and
(g) providing advocacy for a court or tribunal
hearing; and
(h) litigation; and
(i) transactional legal services, including drafting
contracts

Religion
PA 13. Religious workers overseas may visit the UK to
preach or do pastoral work.

Creative
PA 14.1. An artist, entertainer, or musician may:

(a) give performances as an individual or as part of
a group; and
(b) take part in competitions or auditions; and
(c) make personal appearances and take part in
promotional activities; and
(d) take part in one or more cultural events or
festivals on the list of permit free festivals in
Appendix Visitor: Permit Free Festival List.
PA 14.2. Personal or technical staff or members of the
production team of an artist, entertainer or musician
may support the activities in PA 14.1. or Appendix V:
Visitor at V13.3 (e) provided they are attending the
same event as the artist, entertainer or musician, and
are employed to work for them outside of the UK.
PA.14.3. Film crew (actor, producer, director or
technician) employed by an overseas company may
visit the UK to take part in a location shoot for a film or
programme or other media content that is produced and
financed overseas.

Sports
PA 15.1. A sports person may:
(a) take part in a sports tournament or sports event
as an individual or part of a team; and
(b) make personal appearances and take part in
promotional activities; and
(c) take part in trials provided they are not in front of
a paying audience; and
(d) take part in short periods of training provided
they are not being paid by a UK sporting body; and
(e) join an amateur team or club to gain experience
in a particular sport if they are an amateur in that
sport.
PA 15.2. Personal or technical staff of the sports person
may support the activities in PA 15.1. or in Appendix V:
Visitor at V 13.3.(f), if they are attending the same event
as the sports person. Personal or technical staff of the
sports person must be employed to work for the sports
person outside the UK.

PA 15.3. Sports officials may support a sports
tournament or sports event, where they have been
invited by either:
(a) a sports organisation, agent, or broadcaster
based in the UK; or
(b) a sports person with permission as a Visitor
undertaking the activities in PA 15.1. or in Appendix
V: Visitor at V 13.3.(f), at the same sports
tournament or sports event.

Medical treatment and organ donation
PA 16.1. A Visitor may receive private medical treatment
provided the additional requirements at Appendix V:
Visitor at V 7.1. to V 7.3. are also met.
PA.16.2. A Visitor may act as an organ donor or be
assessed as a potential organ donor to an identified
recipient in the UK, provided the additional requirements
at Appendix V: Visitor at V 8.1. to V 8.4. are also met.

Study as a Visitor
PA 17. A Visitor may study for up to six months
providing the requirements of V 9.1. to V 9.5. are met.

Transit
PA 18. A Visitor may transit the UK, provided they meet
the requirements of Appendix V: Visitor at V 14.1. and V
14.2.

Permitted Paid Engagements
PA 19. A Visitor may undertake the permitted paid
engagements in V 13.3, providing they are completed
within 30 days of the Visitor’s entry to the UK, and the
requirements of V 13.1. to V 13.2. are met.

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

© Crown copyright

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix Visitor: Visa
national list
List of nationalities requiring entry
clearance prior to travel to the UK as a
Visitor, or for any other purpose for less
than six months
VN 1.1. A person who meets one or more of the criteria
below needs entry clearance (a visa) in advance of
travel to the UK for any purpose, unless they meet one
of the exceptions set out in VN2.1 and VN2.2. (subject
to VN 2.3.).
(a) Nationals or citizens of the following countries or
territorial entities (a “*” indicates there are
exceptions in VN 2.2 to VN 6.5):
Afghanistan
Albania
Algeria
Angola

Armenia
Azerbaijan
Bangladesh
Belarus
Benin
Bhutan
Bolivia
Bosnia Herzegovina
Botswana
Burkina Faso
Burundi
Cambodia
Cameroon
Cape Verde
Central African Republic
Chad
People’s Republic of China*
Colombia
Comoros
Congo
Côte d’Ivoire (formerly Ivory Coast)
Cuba
Democratic Republic of the Congo
Djibouti
Dominica
Dominican Republic
Ecuador
Egypt
El Salvador
Equatorial Guinea
Eritrea
Eswatini (formerly Swaziland)

Ethiopia
Fiji
Gabon
Gambia
Georgia
Ghana
Guinea
Guinea Bissau
Haiti
Honduras
India
Indonesia
Iran
Iraq
Jamaica
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Korea (North)
Kosovo
Kyrgyzstan
Laos
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Libya
Madagascar
Malawi
Mali
Mauritania
Moldova
Mongolia

Montenegro
Morocco
Mozambique
Myanmar (formerly Burma)
Namibia
Nauru
Nepal
Nicaragua
Niger
Nigeria
North Macedonia (formerly Macedonia)
Pakistan
Palestine
Philippines
Russia
Rwanda
São Tomé and Principe
Senegal
Serbia
Sierra Leone
Somalia
South Africa
South Sudan
Sri Lanka
St Lucia
Sudan
Suriname
Syria
Taiwan*
Tajikistan
Tanzania
Thailand

Timor-Leste
Togo
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turkmenistan
Uganda
Ukraine
Uzbekistan
Vanuatu
Venezuela
Vietnam
Yemen
Zambia
Zimbabwe
(b) stateless people; and
(c) people travelling on any document other than a
national passport, or, in the case of a person to
whom paragraphs 11A and 11B of these rules apply,
a national identity card, regardless of whether the
document is issued by or evidences nationality of a
state not listed in VN 1.1. (a), except where that
document has been issued by the UK.

Exceptions to the list of visa nationals
Holders of specified travel documents
VN 2.1. It is not necessary for a Transit Visitor to hold
an entry clearance before they travel to the UK if they
are travelling on an emergency travel document issued
by, and evidencing the nationality of, a country not listed
in VN 1.1.(a) and the purpose of their transit is to travel
to the country in which they are ordinarily resident.
VN 2.2. The following people do not need a visit visa
before they travel to the UK as a Visitor, other than
where VN 2.3. applies:

(a) nationals or citizens of the People’s Republic of
China who hold a passport issued by the Hong Kong
Special Administrative Region; or
(b) nationals or citizens of the People’s Republic of
China who hold a passport issued by the Macao
Special Administrative Region; or
(c) nationals or citizens of Taiwan who hold a
passport issued by Taiwan that includes in it the
number of the identification card issued by the
competent authority in Taiwan; or
(d) people who hold a Service, Temporary Service or
Diplomatic passport issued by the Holy See; or
(e) DELETED
(f) DELETED
(g) DELETED
(h) DELETED
(i) DELETED
(j) DELETED
(k) DELETED
(l) DELETED
(m) DELETED
(n) DELETED
(o) DELETED
(p) DELETED
(q) DELETED
(r) DELETED
(s) DELETED
(t) nationals or citizens of Nicaragua and nationals
or citizens of St Lucia, who hold a confirmed
booking to the UK, and who have been granted an
Electronic Travel Authorisation, on or before 15:00
GMT on 5 March 2026 where arrival in the UK is no
later than 15:00 BST on 16 April 2026.
VN 2.3. VN 2.2. does not apply where the person is:
(a) visiting the UK to marry or to form a civil
partnership, or to give notice of marriage or civil
partnership, unless they are a “relevant national” as

defined in section 62 of the Immigration Act 2014; or
(b) seeking to visit the UK for more than 6 months.
Exception where the applicant holds an Electronic
Visa Waiver (EVW) Document (Bahrain, Kuwait,
Oman, Saudi Arabia and United Arab Emirates
nationals or citizens only)
VN 3.1. DELETED
VN 3.2. DELETED
VN 3.3. DELETED

Obtaining an Electronic Visa Waiver
Document
VN 4.1. DELETED
VN 4.2. DELETED
VN 4.3. DELETED

Validity Requirements for an Electronic
Visa Waiver Document
VN 5.1. DELETED
VN 5.2. DELETED
VN 5.3. DELETED
VN 5.4. DELETED
VN 5.5. DELETED
VN 5.6. DELETED
VN 5.7. DELETED

Use of the Electronic Visa Waiver
Document
VN 6.1. DELETED
VN 6.2. DELETED
VN 6.3. DELETED

VN 6.4. DELETED
VN 6.5. DELETED

Exception where the Visitor is a person
aged 18 or under on an organised trip
from a school in France
VN 7.0. Nationals or citizens of any country who are
aged 18 or under, studying at a school or educational
institution in France registered with the French Ministry
of Education and seeking to enter the UK as part of a
school party of 5 or more pupils organised by that
school or institution, do not need entry clearance before
they travel to the UK as a Visitor.

Exception where the Visitor is a person
aged 19 or under on an organised trip
from a school in Germany
VN 8.0. Nationals or citizens of any country who are
aged 19 or under, studying at a school or educational
institution in Germany, the existence of which is
confirmed by the relevant German municipal or
competent authority, and seeking to enter the UK as
part of a school party of 5 or more organised by that
school or institution, do not need entry clearance before
they travel to the UK as a Visitor.

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

© Crown copyright

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Youth Mobility Scheme - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:49 am

Immigration Rules
From: Home Office (/government/organisations/homeoffice)

Published 25 February 2016
Updated: 29 April 2026 - See all updates
(/guidance/immigration-rules/updates)

Back to contents

Immigration Rules Appendix Youth
Mobility Scheme
The Youth Mobility Scheme provides a
cultural exchange programme that allows a
person aged between 18 and 30 (or 18-35
for some nationalities), from participating
countries and territories, to experience life
in the UK for up to 2 years (or 3 years for
some nationalities).
Dependants are not permitted on this route.
The Youth Mobility Scheme route is not a route to
settlement.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-youth-mobility-scheme

Page 1 of 8

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Youth Mobility Scheme - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:49 am

Validity requirements for the Youth
Mobility Scheme route
YMS 1.1. A person applying for entry clearance under
the Youth Mobility Scheme route must apply online on
gov.uk on the specified form: “Temporary Work or Youth
Mobility Scheme”.
YMS 1.1.A. A person applying for permission to stay
under the Youth Mobility Scheme route must apply
online on gov.uk on the specified form: “Temporary
Work or Youth Mobility Scheme permission to stay”.
YMS 1.2. An application for entry clearance or
permission to stay under the Youth Mobility Scheme
route must meet all the following requirements:
(a) any fee and Immigration Health Charge must
have been paid; and
(b) the applicant must have provided biometrics
when required; and
(c) the applicant must have provided a passport or
other travel document which satisfactorily
establishes their identity and nationality.
YMS 1.3. The applicant must be one of the following:
(a) a British Overseas citizen, British Overseas
Territories citizen or British National (Overseas); or
(b) a national or citizen of a country or the holder of
a passport issued by a territory, listed in Appendix
Youth Mobility Scheme: eligible nationals.
YMS 1.4. An applicant for entry clearance must be:
(a) a national of Australia, Canada, New Zealand or
the Republic of Korea aged 35 or under on the date
of application; or
(b) aged 30 or under on the date of application.
YMS 1.4.A. An applicant who is applying for permission
to stay must:
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-youth-mobility-scheme

Page 2 of 8

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Youth Mobility Scheme - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:49 am

(a) be an Australian, Canadian or New Zealand
national in the UK;
(b) have, or have last been granted, permission to
enter under the Youth Mobility Scheme route; and
(c) not previously have been granted permission to
stay under the Youth Mobility Scheme route.
YMS 1.5. An application which does not meet all the
validity requirements for the Youth Mobility Scheme may
be rejected as invalid and not considered.

Suitability requirements for the Youth
Mobility Scheme
YMS 2.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under
Part Suitability.
YMS 2.2. If applying for permission to stay the applicant
must not be:
(a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where
the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part
Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be
disregarded; or
(b) on immigration bail.

Eligibility requirements for the Youth
Mobility Scheme
Entry requirements for the Youth Mobility Scheme
YMS 3.1. A person seeking to come to the UK on the
Youth Mobility Scheme route must have applied for and
obtained entry clearance under the Youth Mobility
Scheme route before they arrive in the UK.
YMS 3.2. A person applying for entry clearance on a
Youth Mobility Scheme must, if Appendix Tuberculosis
applies, provide a valid medical certificate confirming
that they have undergone screening for active
pulmonary tuberculosis and that this tuberculosis is not
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-youth-mobility-scheme

Page 3 of 8

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Youth Mobility Scheme - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:49 am

present in them.
YMS 3.3. A person applying for entry clearance must
not have previously spent time in the UK on the Youth
Mobility Scheme route.
YMS 3.4. The applicant must be aged 18 or over on the
date their entry clearance will become valid.

Country-specific eligibility requirements
for the Youth Mobility Scheme
YMS 4.1. Where the applicant is a national of Australia,
Canada, Japan, Monaco, New Zealand or the Republic
of Korea, they are not required to meet any countryspecific eligibility requirements but if they are applying
for entry clearance they must meet the financial
requirements in YMS 5.1. to YMS 5.3.
YMS 4.2. Where the applicant is a national, citizen or
rightful passport holder of one of the countries or
territories listed in the following table of country-specific
eligibility requirements, they must meet the requirement
listed:

1

Hong
Kong
Taiwan

The applicant must:
a) have been issued with an invitation to
apply in accordance with the invitation to
apply arrangements set out in Appendix
Youth Mobility Scheme: eligible nationals;
and
b) have made their application within any
time limit specified on that invitation to
apply.

2

San
Marino

The applicant must provide a letter
confirming the applicant is a suitable
candidate for the Youth Mobility Scheme
from the Directorate of Political and
Diplomatic Affairs of the Republic of San
Marino Department of Foreign Affairs that
has been issued no more than 6 months

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-youth-mobility-scheme

Page 4 of 8

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Youth Mobility Scheme - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:49 am

before the date of application.
3

Iceland

The applicant must provide a Criminal
Certificate for Private Use that has been
issued no more than 6 months before the
date of application.

4

India

The applicant must:
(a) have been issued with an invitation to
apply in accordance with the invitation to
apply arrangements set out in Appendix
Youth Mobility Scheme: eligible nationals;
and
(b) have made their application within the
period of time specified in that invitation
to apply; and
(c) provide the unique application number
for that invitation to apply; and
(d) provide a local police certificate or a
police clearance certificate that has been
issued no more than 6 months before the
date of application; and
(e) hold a qualification equal to or above
RQF level 6.

5

Andorra

The applicant must provide a certificate
of criminal records issued no more than 6
months before the date of application.

6

Uruguay

The applicant must provide a Certificate
of Judicial Records that has been issued
no more than 6 months before the date of
application.

YMS 4.3. The number of places for entry clearance
applications allocated to nationals or citizens of the
same country, or rightful holders of a passport issued by
the same territory, must not have exceeded the annual
total allocation of places for that country or territory as
set out in Appendix Youth Mobility Scheme: eligible
nationals.
YMS 4.4. Where the applicant is a British Overseas
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-youth-mobility-scheme

Page 5 of 8

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Youth Mobility Scheme - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:49 am

citizen, British Overseas Territories citizen or British
National (Overseas), YMS 4.1. to YMS 4.2. do not
apply.

Financial requirement for the Youth
Mobility Scheme
YMS 5.1. The applicant must have funds of £ 2,530.
YMS 5.2. The applicant must show that they have held
the required level of funds for a 28- day period and as
specified in Appendix Finance.
YMS 5.3. The applicant must not have any children
aged under 18 who are either living with them or
financially dependent upon them.
YMS 5.4. YMS 5.1. to YMS 5.3. do not apply to
applications for permission to stay on the Youth Mobility
Scheme route.

Decision on an application for the Youth
Mobility Scheme
YMS 6.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all the
eligibility and suitability requirements are met for the
Youth Mobility Scheme route, the application will be
granted, otherwise the application will be refused.
YMS 6.2. If the application is refused the person can
apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR:
Administrative Review.

Period of grant for the Youth Mobility
Scheme
YMS 7.1. The applicant will be granted either:
(a) entry clearance for up to 2 years; or
(b) permission to stay for a period which means the
period of permission (including the original
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-youth-mobility-scheme

Page 6 of 8

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Youth Mobility Scheme - Guidance - GOV.UK

07/05/2026, 11:49 am

permission to enter) granted under the Youth
Mobility Scheme is for a total of 3 continuous years.
Conditions of grant for the Youth Mobility Scheme
YMS 7.2. The grant will be subject to all the following
conditions:
(a) no access to public funds; and
(b) work permitted, subject to YMS 7.3; and
(c) study is permitted subject to the ATAS condition
in Appendix ATAS.
(d) DELETED.
YMS 7.3. Work is permitted subject to the following
employment conditions:
(a) no employment as a professional sportsperson
(including as a sports coach); and
(b) no self-employment, except where the following
conditions are met:
(i) the applicant has no premises which they
own, other than their home, from which they
carry out their business; and
(ii) the total value of any equipment used in their
business does not exceed £5,000; and
(iii) the applicant has no employees.

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-youth-mobility-scheme

Page 7 of 8

Immigration Rules - Immigration Rules Appendix Youth Mobility Scheme - Guidance - GOV.UK

All content is available under the Open Government
Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules/immigration-rules-appendix-youth-mobility-scheme

07/05/2026, 11:49 am

© Crown copyright

Page 8 of 8

